1 Hello, friend.  "Hello, friend?" That's lame.  Maybe I should give you a name.  But that's a slippery slope. You're only in my head.  We have to remember that.  Shit.  It's actually happened. I'm talking to an imaginary person.  What I'm about to tell you is top secret.  A conspiracy bigger than all of us.  There's a powerful group of people out there that are secretly running the world.  I'm talking about the guys no one knows about.  The guys that are invisible.  The top one percent of the top one percent.  The guys that play God without permission.  And now I think they're following me.  This is about last night.  I should've gone to Angela's birthday party.  Instead, I went to  Hey, Ron.  There you are.  Happy New Year 2016 - New Year, New Color ;-)  You're Ron?  But  Your real name is Rohit D'Temeta.  You changed it to Ron when you bought your first  Ron's Coffee shop six years ago.  Now, you got 17 of 'em with eight more coming next quarter.  May I help you with something?  I like coming here, 'cause your Wi-Fi was fast.  I mean, you're one of the few spots that has a fiber connection with gigabit speed.  It's good.  I mean, it was so good, it scratched that part of my mind.  The part that  doesn't allow good to exist without condition.  So, I started intercepting all the traffic on your network.  That's when I noticed something strange.  That's when I decided to hack you.  - Hack - I know you run a website called Plato's Boys.  Pardon me?  You're using Tor networking to keep the servers anonymous.  You made it really hard for anyone to see it.  But I saw it.  The onion routing protocol, it's not as anonymous as you think it is.  Whoever's in control of the exit nodes is also in control of the traffic,  which makes me  the one in control.  - I must ask you to kindly leave, please. - I own everything.  All your emails. All your files.  All your pics.  Get out of here, right now, or I'll call the  Police?  I mean, you want them to find out about the hundred terabytes of child pornography  you serve to your 400,000 users?  Personally, man,  I was hoping it was just gonna be some BDSM stuff.  You realize how much simpler that would've been?  I did not hurt anyone.  I never did.  That's my personal life.  I understand what it's like  to be different.  I'm very different, too.  I mean, I don’t jerk off to little kids, but  I don't know how to talk to people.  My dad was the only one I could talk to.  But he died.  I'm sorry to hear that.  How did he pass, may I ask?  Leukemia.  Yeah, he definitely got it from  radiation at the company he worked at, though I couldn't prove it.  Now, he's dead.  Company's fine, though.  Oh, hey  It's okay, Rohit.  You don't have to worry anymore.  I don't understand.  Are you blackmailing me?  So that's what this is about? Money?  That's all you care about, hmm?  No.  If I pay you now, you'll want more and more.  No matter how much I give.  You will inform the police anyway.  I won't pay you, sir.  Remember, you also broke the law.  Actually, you're right.  Partly.  See, I usually do this kind of thing from my computer,  but this time I wanted to do it AFK.  In person.  I'm trying to work on my social anxiety.  But there's always the threat of you fleeing after I call you out.  You know, you tell your sysadmin to take your servers down, wipe all the data.  So  I made sure to include the current time and location on my anonymous tip.  Wait, hold on. I'll give you the money. I'll pay you.  How much do you want? I'll pay you.  That's the part you were wrong about, Rohit.  I don't give a shit about money.  Now, I'm being followed.  The higher-ups don't like someone with my powers.  In three short minutes, I destroyed a man's business, life, existence.  - I deleted him. - Hey!  Hey, you!  Hey, kiddo.  What's happening?  Exciting time in the world right now.  Exciting time.  But I'm only a vigilante hacker by night.  By day, just a regular cyber-security engineer.  Employee number ER-280652.  Elliot?  In here.  - What's up? - Yo.  - I do. It's not about the - All Of the  I can Yeah, I can totally  I can totally handle it.  Look, they were hacked again last night.  That's my childhood friend, Angela.  She can be a bit high-strung sometimes.  But, trust me, she's one of the good ones.  What am I looking at? Is this the log file? This was a RUDY attack.  - This is awesome. - Gideon, will you please answer me?  Awesome? You think this is awesome?  This is killing us, Elliot.  Gideon, I'm not leaving - Angela!  Let's just see how this meeting goes today.  I mean, their Their networks are getting attacked every week.  Who knows if they'll still even be a client.  - They're coming in? - Yeah.  What did we say about the dress code?  All right, now, look over those logs and be ready,  this afternoon, in case they have any questions.  Okay?  Okay.  Did you start smoking again?  Did you not get my texts last night?  I sent you exactly 13 of them.  Yeah, sorry. I couldn't make it.  You promised me that you were gonna try this time.  Stop thinking about something else when I'm talking to you.  I hate when you do that.  Sorry.  I was thinking about work.  Maybe that's why Gideon loves you so much.  He thanks me all the time for bringing you in.  But, for some reason, I think you secretly hate it here.  She was right.  I like most of the people, but our business,  a cyber-security firm that protects corporations,  I can't think of anything I hate more.  No, I love it here.  I'm sorry.  I'm just in a bad mood.  I'm late on my last two student loan payments.  And I can't get Gideon to give me a raise.  - Hey. - Hi.  Yo, buddy.  - Missed you last night. Where were you? - Gotta go.  Big meeting today.  Did you find out what happened?  Yeah. He said he was working.  Ugh, come on. You gotta talk to him.  We're gonna be late for the staff meeting.  He can't stand me. And you know why.  Angela,  I can't have that kind of negativity in my life.  That's exactly what I'm talking about.  What are you thinking about?  Nothing.  You wanna know what I'm thinking about?  The first time you came to me.  I didn't exactly come to Krista.  I was forced here. But I do like her.  Hacking her was simple.  Her password? Dylan2791.  Favorite artist and the year in which she was born, backwards.  Though she's a psychologist, she's really bad at reading people.  But I'm good at reading people. My secret?  I look for the worst in them.  I know she went through a divorce four years ago.  I know she was devastated by it and has been dating losers on eHarmony ever since.  Her most recent foray? Michael Hansen.  I searched for him online, but nothing came up.  No LinkedIn, no Facebook. Nothing.  Something about him bugs me.  Scratching that part of my mind again.  But I'll hack him soon enough. I always do.  I know you're not yelling like before, which is good,  but I can tell you're still holding on to it.  And we need to work on your anger issues, Elliot.  You're angry at everyone.  - At society - F society.  I know you have a lot to be angry about,  but keeping it to yourself and staying quiet,  like you're doing, it's not going to help you.  There's pain underneath.  That's where our work needs to go.  What is it about society that disappoints you so much?  Oh, I don't know.  Is it that we collectively thought Steve Jobs was a great man,  even when we knew he made billions off the backs of children?  Or maybe it's that it feels like all our heroes are counterfeit.  The world itself's just one big hoax.  Spamming each other with our burning commentary of bullshit masquerading as insight.  Our social media faking as intimacy.  Or is it that we voted for this?  Not with our rigged elections, but with our things.  Our property. Our money.  I'm not saying anything new. We all know why we do this.  Not because Hunger Games books makes us happy.  But because we wanna be sedated.  Because it's painful not to pretend. Because we're cowards.  - F society. - Elliot.  Elliot, you're not saying anything.  What's wrong?  Nothing.  Don't be frustrated.  Why shouldn't I be?  You're different than most.  You at least try.  You at least understand.  Understand what?  What it's like to feel alone.  You understand the pain.  You wanna protect people from it.  You wanna protect me from it.  I respect that about you.  Why do you think I know what it's like to feel alone?  Shit. From her emails.  Elliot?  I don't know.  Let's talk about last night.  Did you go to Angela's birthday party?  Yeah. It was nice.  - Did you try to talk to anyone? - Sure.  I got a girl's number.  - You did? - She's cute.  She likes The Hunger Games.  You're hiding again, Elliot.  When you hide, your delusions come back.  It's a slippery slope.  Let's talk about the men in black you've been seeing.  Are they still there?  No, they're  I told you, they're gone.  The meds you gave me are working.  Yo, man.  Do you wanna, uh  You wanna do lunch today?  Uh, yeah.  - I got other - Plans, right.  That's what you said the last three times I asked you, uh  Look, bud, you and Angela have been close for a long time.  And that's even more reason why I want us to be on good terms.  I just I feel like things have been awkward between us.  Don't you?  I'm okay with it being awkward between us.  Um, yeah, I'm I'm not okay with that.  Um  Look, man, I love Angela and I want us to  To get along, for her sake.  I mean, that's, that's what I'm kinda That's what I'm here for.  I just, I  I don't normally do stuff like this.  Am I crazy not to like this guy?  Among some of his Facebook likes are  George W. Bush's decision points,  Revenge of the Fallen,  - and the music of Josh Groban  Must I really justify myself any further?  Working on that shit, you know?  His was the easiest to hack.  Password was 123456Seven.  I witnessed his first "I love you" with Angela over GChat.  Then I witnessed the first Of many infidelities with Stella B.  I've never done anything like this before  I've thought about telling Angela but she has shitty taste in men  and I'm not quite ready to see what comes after this just yet.  You like music. I like music.  Maroon 5?  Plus, I can manage Ollie easier than the others.  For now, anyway.  And that's all I mean.  I just want you to know that.  I like you, bro.  And I want you to like me, too.  I understand.  I'll try harder.  That's cool, man.  Hey, whenever you're ready, I'd love to just  chill.  Oh, forgot about your no touching thing.  Truth is, I shouldn't hate Ollie. He's not that bad a guy.  He's too dumb to be bad.  In fact, when I think about the really bad people  E Corp, the largest conglomerate in the world.  They're so big, they're literally everywhere.  A perfect monster of modern society.  The "E" might as well stand for "Evil."  electronics and all of life's necessities  In fact, after a thorough, intensive self-reprogramming,  that's all my mind hears, sees, or reads when they pop up in my world.  Together, we can change the world  - with E Corp. - Evil Corp.  Krista would have a shit fit if she knew I did that.  But that's what they are, a conglomerate of evil.  And now I have to help them.  There are six on-site engineers on your account.  - There he is. - Terry Colby, the CTO.  I know it looks a little complicated.  Even though he's the head technology guy  at one of the biggest companies in the world, he owns a BlackBerry.  So, this is it, right here.  It also looks like he doesn't see a terminal very often.  He's not a techie. He's a moron.  An arrogant moron.  The worst kind.  Oh, hi.  Tyrell Wellick, Senior Vice President, Technology.  Elliot.  Just a tech.  Don't be so humble.  You know, I started out exactly where you are, and  To be honest, you know, my heart is still there.  So I see you're running Gnome.  You know, I'm actually on KDE myself.  I know this desktop environment is supposed to be better, but  You know what they say,  old habits, they die hard.  An executive running Linux?  But, that - Yeah, I know what you're thinking.  I'm an executive.  I mean, why am I even running Linux?  Again, old habits.  It's gonna be fun working with you.  I should join the rest of the group.  Bonsoir, Elliot.  Sometimes I dream of saving the world.  Saving everyone from the invisible hand.  The one that brands us with an employee badge.  The one that forces us to work for them.  The one that controls us every day without us knowing it.  But I can't stop it.  I'm not that special.  I'm just anonymous.  I'm just alone.  If it weren't for Qwerty, I'd be completely empty.  I hate when I can't hold in my loneliness.  This crying's been happening too often. Every other week now.  What do normal people do when they get this sad?  They reach out to friends or family, I think.  That's not an option.  I do morphine.  The key to doing morphine without turning into a junkie  is to limit yourself to 30 milligrams a day.  Anything more just builds up your tolerance.  I check every pill I get for purity.  I have eight milligrams Suboxone, for maintenance,  in case I go through withdrawal.  Shit. I'm out again.  How much?  On the house.  No, Shayla.  Not doing that, okay?  This is just a regular drug deal, like it always is.  Fine.  Oh, yeah, so what are you up to tonight?  'Cause I tried to post something on your Facebook and couldn't find you.  I'm not on Facebook.  What? Why not?  'Cause I hate Facebook.  That's crazy.  Well, you wanna do these together, then?  Pure Molly.  Don't ever make decisions when you're on morphine.  Instagram check-in for Krista at Pierre Loti.  Okay, Michael Hansen. Time to find out who you really are.  Taxi!  Uh, hi. I just left my keys in one of your cabs.  56Y2.  Sure.  How 'bout you two? Huh?  You guys got any spare change?  Help me out? Homes are expensive, guys. Come on.  306, Hawthorne. Thank you. Thank you.  Come on, asshole. Piss already.  - I mean, come on. Come on!  - Will ya Will ya go?  - Hey! - Go! Go, will ya?  - Hey. - Come on.  Can I borrow your phone?  Mine's dead. I need to call my mom.  Thank you.  No answer. Thanks, anyway.  Angela, is everything okay?  I need you to come to Allsafe.  You're there? It's 3:00 in the morning.  They attacked Evil Corp 's servers again.  But it's bad this time. It's a DDoS attack.  Did you call Lloyd? He's on call.  Yeah, he's here.  Is he talking to their tech department?  He's online with them, but so far, nothing.  I don't think that Lloyd can handle this.  Look, Gideon just put me on this account.  I can't screw up in my first week. I need you.  Please?  I'll be right there.  Finally.  Calm down. It's only been an hour.  Yeah, well an hour in Evil Corp's time  is like $13,000,000 in revenue, approximately.  Actually, I calculated that.  That's exactly how much they lost.  Don't worry, I got you.  Lloyd, what's up?  Lloyd?  Elliot. This is bad.  Worst DDoS attack I've ever seen.  Did you reconfigure the DNS?  Yes.  Stop the services. I already stopped the services.  I tried to reboot the servers, but they're not coming back up.  Dude, someone is straight up finger-blasting our entire network right now.  They just started reporting on the outage.  Shit. This is worse than I thought. They're in the network.  What's the status update?  You see, I thought we set up security protocols so that this doesn't happen.  - Where's the attack coming from? - Everywhere, obviously.  USA, Finland, Thailand, Kuwait  Start restarting the services, load sharing, redirect the traffic.  And call Prolexic for help.  Wait. What?  I don't think this is just a DDoS attack.  I think they got a rootkit sitting inside the servers.  What's a rootkit?  It's like a crazy serial rapist with a very big dick!  Jesus, Lloyd!  Sorry, it's a malicious code that completely takes over their system.  It could delete system files, install programs,  - viruses, worms - How do we stop it?  That's the thing, it's fundamentally invisible.  You can't stop it. All of their servers are timing out.  None of them are coming back up.  Yeah. This means every time we restart a server  the virus replicates itself during boot-up, then crashes the host.  How are we supposed to bring up the network  if we can't restart the servers?  We can't.  Which is what they wanted.  By defending ourselves, we ended up spreading the virus everywhere.  Only thing we can do is We gotta take the whole system offline.  Wipe the infected servers clean, then bring them back up.  - You're coming with me. - Yeah.  Lloyd?  Tell everybody to start taking everything offline.  - On it. - Uh, the server farm in Dulles.  We're gonna need the jet.  They're booting the network back up.  Now, you're downloading the logs, right?  - Because we need - Stop. Tell 'em to stop.  - What? - Don't start the boot sequence.  You guys missed one. There's an infected server up and running.  What's the ETA before it hits this server?  The backup server up and running?  It's ready, but it's not configured for auto switch.  We need to redirect the traffic. We need to switch DNS.  You got this. You got this. You got this.  No, this is impossible. You got this. You got this.  It's almost at the bad server.  We still up?  We're okay.  Yeah.  Hey, I'm gonna take a look at the infected server, okay?  Give me a minute. Yeah.  Uh, I'll meet you at the elevators.  They must've left a mark or something.  Every hacker loves attention.  They don't just do DDoS attacks for no reason.  This is it.  "fsociety."  Is that supposed to be a joke?  This was way too easy. They didn't hide it well at all.  This note is for me.  They're telling me to leave it here.  But why?  Doesn't matter.  Time to shut them down.  Why can't I delete it?  I don't want to delete it. I want it to stay.  What's wrong with me?  I'll reconfigure the access to the root directory so only I can use it.  No one will know.  For you, sir.  Did you know that I'm gay?  Uh  No.  Hmm.  Consider this me coming out to you, then.  Okay?  It's hard, 'cause I don't like to talk about my sex life,  but my partner, he gets very paranoid, he  Thinks I'm ashamed of  He wants me to be more public about it.  So Anyway.  I'm gay.  - Thanks. - Yeah.  Hey, man, don't worry about it.  Hackers have a short attention span.  They'll get bored, harass someone else.  Evil Corp is thinking about leaving us.  And I don't know if I can blame 'em.  They could've called their other security teams. Mmm.  They called you.  Somebody over there likes us.  But Terry Colby, he's getting the pressure.  And he calls the shots.  Evil Corp is 80% of our business.  If we lose them, that's gonna be it for us.  It's gonna be it  for me.  I feel like I can talk to you.  I mean, more than the others, anyway.  I'm sure, in a weird way,  you'll be happy if we went under.  Aw, come on.  I know you hate wearing those stupid shirts.  Gideon,  I promise I'll find them.  Evil Corp servers should be back up soon enough.  I'll take a look at the .dat file.  I'll ask my IRC contacts about fsociety when I get home.  I've never seen their name on the boards, though.  They gotta be new. But they're good.  Rough night?  I'm getting off here.  I think you should come with me.  But only if you didn't delete it.  If you deleted it, we got nothing to talk about.  Are you talking to me?  Stand clear of the closing doors, please.  Who are you?  We gotta wait for the Q.  Then what?  Then we're going to Brooklyn.  Out by Coney Island.  Why?  What's there?  Obviously, you're gonna ask a lot of questions.  It's weird what you're doing right now. I get it.  But I can't tell you anything until we get there.  You can't smoke in here.  You've been following me.  Why?  What do you want from me?  My dad was a petty thief.  Never could hold down a job. So he just robbed.  Convenience stores, shops. Small-time stuff.  One time, he sat me down. He told me something I never forgot.  He said, "Everyone steals.  "That's how it works.  "You think people out there are getting exactly what they deserve? No.  "They're getting paid over or under,  "but someone in the chain always gets bamboozled.  "I steal, son.  "But I don't get caught.  "That's my contract with society.  "Now, if you can catch me stealing, then I'll go to jail.  "But if you can't  "then I've earned the money."  I respected that man.  I thought that shit was cool, as a little kid.  A few years after that, they finally caught him.  Sent him to jail.  He dies five years later. My respect goes with him.  I thought he was free doing what he did, but he wasn't.  He was in prison.  Just like you are now, Elliot.  But I'm gonna break you out.  Why would you guys actually meet IRL?  You remember that hacker group, O-Megz?  They got outed by their own leader to the FBI and six hackers went to prison for it.  You know how they got him?  They went on the dude's computer.  Tracked them all down through emails,  VPN sessions, chat messages, texts.  One guy, and the whole thing comes down.  That's what's called Central point of failure.  Right.  Because they refused to meet in person,  they compromised each other every time they sent so much as a smiley face.  The rule here is,  it's done here and only here.  It ends when you walk out that door and begins when you walk in.  Our encryption, is the real world.  How do you talk to each other, then?  We don't.  We come and go. Work on the project when we can.  How do you trust them?  I give 'em an exercise.  If they pass, they join us.  If they fail DDoS attack last night.  You were testing me.  You said there was a project.  What's the project?  That'll come later.  I just wanted you to see the place.  There's not much you can do without a CPU.  I'm crazy.  I have to be crazy, because that didn't just happen, right?  This is a delusion. Is this a delusion?  Shit, I'm a schizo.  Have I really lost it this time? No. No.  Last night happened. It was real.  Angela called me. I was at Allsafe.  Evil Corp servers were compromised.  Those are facts, not delusions.  I know.  I know, I know, I realize I'm saying all of this to an imaginary person.  But I created you.  I didn't create this.  Oh.  Thank God, you're here. I was just about to go wait in the Starbucks.  You live in a bad neighborhood. Do you know that?  I do know that.  Do you wanna get high and watch your favorite movie?  You saved our asses last night.  I thought Gideon was definitely gonna fire me.  Where've you been?  I thought you'd be sleeping.  I Yeah, I fell asleep on the train.  That sounds like such a lie.  But, whatever.  I don't wanna get into that right now.  So, you wanna do this?  I miss Qwerty.  I hope she still loves me.  Okay  Shit.  She wasn't supposed to be here.  Okay? Give me a minute and I'll get rid of her.  It's okay. Um  This is great.  Elliot, I'm happy for you. No, it's not like that.  Well, maybe it should be.  You know, it's good that you're  dating.  Um Well, see you on Monday.  We can do movie night next time.  - I promise. Okay? - Yeah.  Have fun.  Mmm  Elliot?  Oh, shit. Is it Wednesday?  Shayla. I have to move my car.  Shayla,  leave.  Now!  No mention of Mr. Robot anywhere.  No mention of fsociety.  Not on any of the hacker boards.  Not on IRC, forums, blogs- No one's heard of them.  Property was owned by Fun Society Amusement LLC for 13 years.  Owner was shot and killed a year and a half ago. No owner since.  And the ownership history before that's sparse to non-existent.  This guy's good.  Very good.  Doesn't matter.  Their arcade network's IP is in the .dat file.  That'll be enough to turn them in.  What's your ask, Mr. Robot?  Hey, man.  Where's your boss?  Okay, cut the bullshit.  When are you gonna give us access to the root directory?  What? Dude, come on.  I wrote that rootkit.  I still have to put Colby's IP in the .dat file.  Dickhead.  Elliot! Good news.  Scored the last bag of Twinkies from Gristedes.  You want one?  She just called me a dickhead.  Yeah, that's Darlene.  Hey, you like Ferris wheels?  Ah, it's beautiful.  It gets better the higher up you go, you know.  I love it up here.  You like it?  I'm here to tell you I'm turning you in.  I'm giving them all the information  Let me tell you why you're really here.  You're here because you sense something wrong with the world.  Something you can't explain.  But, you know it controls you and everyone you care about  What are you talking about?  Money.  Money hasn't been real since we got off the gold standard.  It's become virtual.  Software, the operating system of our world.  And, Elliot, we are on the verge  of taking down this virtual reality.  Think about it.  What if you could take down one conglomerate?  A conglomerate so deeply entrenched  in the world's economy  that "too big to fail" doesn't even come close to describing it?  You wanna create another financial meltdown like the one we just had,  but way worse.  Yeah, why would I want that?  Everyone would lose their money.  What if I told you that this conglomerate  just so happens to own 70% of the global consumer credit industry, huh?  If we hit their data center just right  we could systematically format all the servers, including backup.  That would erase All the debt we owe them.  Every record of every credit card, loan, and mortgage would be wiped clean.  It'd be impossible to reinforce outdated paper records.  It'd all be gone.  The single, biggest incident  of wealth redistribution  in history.  Evil Corp. The conglomerate.  That's why you picked me.  'Cause I work at Allsafe. Tomorrow  Allsafe is gonna get a visit from the FBI  and the US Cyber Command.  You  are gonna modify the .dat file,  and put Colby's terminal IP address in there.  Terry Colby.  You're gonna frame him? No one's gonna believe that.  I met him. He's a moron.  So are the FBI.  Even if they don't believe he did it,  they'll believe he gave someone access to it.  And he'll just go to jail. What good'll that do?  You don't take down a conglomerate by shooting them in the heart.  That's the thing about conglomerates,  they don't have hearts.  You take 'em down limb by limb.  And as they unravel,  their illusion of control unravels.  Who are you?  That'll come later. Right now  You have a lot to think about.  You have to change this .dat file, okay?  But put Colby's IP in there.  You do that,  you'll have set in motion the largest revolution the world will ever see.  If you go away  On this summer day  Then you might as well take the sun away  All the birds that flew in a summer sky  When our love was new and our hearts were high  When the day was young  And the night was long  And the moon stood still for the night bird's song  If you go away  If you go away  If you go away  But if you stay  Then I'll make you a day  Like no day's been  Or will be again  We'll sail on the sun  We'll ride on the rain  We'll talk to the trees  That worship the wind  And if you go, I'll understand  Leave me just enough love to fill up my hand  If you go away  If you go away  If you go away  If you go away  As I know you must  There'll be nothing left in the world to trust  Just an empty room full of empty space  Like the empty look I see on your face  Can I tell you now as you turn to go  I'll be dying slowly till your next hello  If you go away  If you go away  If you go away  So?  What do we got?  So, if you'll take a look at the first page of your agenda  You're the one who stopped the hack.  You know, uh, the gals in analysis said this was a tough one.  All things being equal, it should've shut us down for days, so  You did good.  Okay.  We should start with our account executive, Angela.  Okay, we first noticed the breach at 2:07 a.m. Eastern Standard on Friday night.  You mean Saturday?  Sorry, yes.  Technically, Saturday morning.  Yeah. Okay, Angela. That's what we're here for.  The technicals.  Right.  Yes.  Anyway, he arrived at the office at 2:35, and I  Okay, wait, wait, wait. So that's, uh, almost a half hour after the initial breach.  Why didn't anyone pipe in from their laptops?  It's not It wouldn't have been secure.  If someone terminaled in on this.  It was  the smarter move to have someone come in so they can log in on a secure line.  Exactly. Then, Lloyd was able to  Just Just, actually, uh Just one second.  You know, I, uh I always loved this view.  And now that that's taken care of,  let's pick it up where we left off.  What happened to Angela? She knows more about what happened.  She's not gonna work out for us.  Not on this level. We need to stick to the more tech savvy here.  Now, let's get to the heart of this thing,  because I can't sit here and look through a packet for the next 20 minutes.  All right? Just who did this?  Is it that hard?  Who did this?  I found the configuration file of the rootkit with a pattern of IP addresses.  Once you decrypt it, you'll know where the hack came from.  Nineteen days.  No news. No arrest. No revolution.  No FBI, Colby, Evil Corp.  No Mr. Robot.  No fsociety.  I need to take my mind off things.  Hello?  Hi, this is Sam from Bank of E-Security Fraud Department.  Unfortunately, I have to inform you that your account's been compromised.  What? What happened?  First, before I can answer any questions,  I need to verify some information.  Are you still at 306 Hawthorne Avenue?  Yes, apartment 2C.  Great. And your security question, "Favorite baseball team"?  Um, Yankees. I don't remember this being a security  And, lastly, your pet's name?  Um, Flipper.  Uh, who am I speaking to?  Can I get your name and num  With those details, plus a dictionary brute force attack,  it'll take my program maybe two minutes to crack his password.  What I wouldn't give to be normal.  To live in that bubble.  The reality of the naive.  That's how I justify this.  To keep their optimism intact.  To protect them.  How? He's too old to have a complicated password.  It had to have been a combination of these things.  I'm missing something. I'm missing something.  I'm missing something.  Michael Hansen isn't his real name.  Come on. Get over here.  Lenny Shannon? Michael Hansen?  Which one you playin' tonight?  You're gonna stop seeing Krista. What the  You're gonna break up with her.  You're never gonna see her again.  You're the guy that used my phone.  You cheated on your current wife with seven different women.  I got digital proof of all of it.  Ashley Madison, online escorts, fake Facebook pages.  I own it all.  And if you don't stop seeing her  Your wife will know everything.  Along with the police.  - The police? - Yeah, one of the escorts was 15.  That 15 part I made up,  but he did have a proclivity for young escorts that helped the lie.  But I'm not gonna do any of that.  As long as you break up with Krista.  Tonight.  Done.  You're also gonna tell her the truth.  You're married, cheat on your wife, you hire hookers.  And you never had any intention of being serious with her.  Why?  That would destroy her.  She thinks that  we're in love.  Exactly.  Krista needs to avoid dickheads like you in the future.  Her radar needs fixing.  I'll know if you skip any detail.  So don't.  And one more thing.  I'm gonna need something from you.  Come on.  Hmm.  I like you, Flipper.  You're cool.  I never wanna be right about my hacks,  but people always find a way to disappoint.  Michael Hansen now gets filed away among the others.  Forever buried in my digital cemetery.  The look of disillusionment.  He told her. She cried all night.  Now comes the sadness.  I don't like seeing her sad.  You okay?  Sorry.  Sorry.  Go on.  I think Angela blames me for what happened at the Evil Corp meeting.  What do I do? I need to talk to her.  Well, I think you just answered your own question.  Talk to her.  She won't respond to any of my texts or emails.  Then, go to her in person.  Tell her you need to talk.  Communication is key, Elliot.  Real human interaction.  That's what's important for you right now.  Do you  You think we can talk?  What?  You won't talk to me.  You haven't talked to me since the meeting.  I don't wanna talk to you, because I feel embarrassed.  Every time I think about what happened.  Okay?  It's fine. I'll get over it.  It's been three weeks. I have to get back to work.  You're just gonna ignore me? You didn't have to stick up for me in there.  I know that you were just trying to help, but just  Don't do it again!  Even if I'm losing, let me lose.  Okay?  Don't look confused!  Just say  "Okay."  Okay.  Elliot  FBI agents claim that Colby either used hacking groups,  or worked in conjunction with them  to pressure Evil Corp during his contract negotiations.  After a long and exhaustive investigation,  sources close to the FBI  have confirmed the hacks were, in part, tied to Colby's terminal.  It's happening.  It's happening. It's happening. It's happening.  It's happening. It's happening.  Sir, step inside the car.  Sir.  Step inside the vehicle now.  Go ahead.  Sir, go on in.  Sir, go on in.  Bonsoir, Elliot.  Please tell me you're seeing this, too.  Happy New Year 2016 - New Year, New Color ;-)
What I'm about to tell you is top secret.  Oh, hi. Tyrell Wellick.  You wanna do these together then?  - Pure molly. - No, Shayla.  I need you to come to Allsafe.  Shit, they're in the network.  This is it. fsociety.  They're telling me to leave it here.  Who are you?  I think you should come with me.  Yeah, that's Darlene.  You are gonna modify the DAT file.  Put Colby's IP in there.  You do that, you'll have set in motion  the largest revolution the world will ever see.    Sources have confirmed  the hacks were in part tied to Colby's terminal.  Sir, step inside the car.  Bonsoir, Elliot.  "Give a man a gun and he can rob a bank,  but give a man a bank, and he can rob the world."  It's a bit of a silly expression, actually.  A little reductive, but still  I like it,  for the same reason most people hate it,  because to me it means that power belongs  to the people that take it.  Nothing to do with their hard work, strong ambitions,  or rightful qualifications, no.  The actual will to take is often the only thing that's necessary.  I'm sorry to bring you in like this.  Technically what we're doing might be considered illegal,  which is why I'm surrounded  by eleven of our most annoying lawyers.  Elliot Alderson  I want to offer you  a position here at Evil Corp.  I want you to head our cybersecurity division.  Except I can't officially offer you anything  since we have this non-compete with your employer, Allsafe.  But if you do this of your own accord  when you do this  you'll be a multi-millionaire within the next five years.  What do you say?  Can I  Can I think about it?  Gentlemen, I need the room.  Yes, thank you. Yes, yes.  You know,  Evil Corp has just named me interim CTO.  It won't be long until it's official.  I will be the youngest executive this company has ever seen.  I should track down these hackers out there  just to thank them.  In a way, it's kind of, um  What's the word in English?  Serendipitous? Right?  You know, by the end of the quarter,  we're going to revamp our entire network  and consolidate our security protocols.  We're going to handle everything internally,  which means all of our vendors, including Allsafe,  will be cut loose.  And it's no secret that once Allsafe loses us as a client,  they'll be fini.  And when that happens,  I want you to be where you belong:  here with me.  This is an important choice you're making, Elliot.  I just wanted you to know all the facts  before you made your final decision.  I think I'm happy where I am.  Well, I thought I'd ask.  Call this number if you need to get in touch with Mr. Wellick.  You can call me Mr. X.  Come on, you've never seen JFK?  Oliver Stone movie?  Sir, I gotta be honest. That's embarrassing.  Do yourself a favor and watch it.  And pay, for Christ's sake.  Anyway, you can call me Mr. Sutherland for now.  Don't hesitate to reach me when you're ready.  We're always close by.  I'm gonna set a date right now  - No, we're not. - For later.  I gotta go, thank you very much.  - You gonna have me up? - No.  - Gonna have me up? - No, stop.  - I'm coming up. - No, you're not coming up.  Another time. Okay, I gotta go.  Come on.  - Everything all right? - Yeah, he's just a creeper.  I hate it when your employers can't take a hint.  Hey, is your radiator messed up?  Because it's like 3,000 degrees in my apartment.  Hey, are you okay? You seem off.  While we're here, you mind if I reup?  A little early to reup, don't you think?  I'm deviating from the schedule a little.  Whoa, never thought I'd see the day, Mr. Stricty Pants,  but okie dokie.  Oh, yeah. Shit, I'm out of the other ones.  No, just the morphine. It's good.  Uh, no, you made me promise never to give you these  unless I had your Subs.  - Shayla. - No, Elliot.  Promises matter, okay?  I take this shit to heart.  Oh, my God.  Fine, but you have to promise me you won't do a lot  until I get your withdrawal meds, okay?  I'll go see Fernando later or something.  No, you have to say it.  I promise.  Hey, man.  What, you think I forgot about you?  Trust me, I need you now more than ever.  We gotta get to work.  Hacking Tyrell Wellick, you'd think it'd be tricky,  but it wasn't Evil Corp's corporate mail servers,  they haven't patched anything since Shellshock.  He doesn't even use two-step verification.  His password was just his wife's maiden name  and Sweden's independence date, 6-6.  One six away from the obvious, but still,  this is bad noob practice.  These emails  His life it's nice, happy, perfect.  This doesn't make sense.  Did he know I was going to hack him?  Did he let me?  I'm gonna need to wipe everything.  I know, I know, taking more than I should.  I'm breaking my rule, but come on, it's an off week.  Come on.  Yo. My man, you gotta  You gotta deuce it out over here, all right?  Yo, you gotta do your business up in here, all right?  Hey  You got this. You got this.  Terry Colby, the chief technology officer of  Terry Colby's arrest is on everyone's mind.  Screen. Might as well be the same thing nowadays.  How do I go back to work after this?  How can I focus on anything?  And when's Mr. Robot going to contact me again?  What's he waiting for?  Did I just destroy a man's life for no reason?  I'm gonna talk to HR about a salary bump for you.  - Oh, please. - No, no.  Take the raise.  It's not gonna be much, but it's the best I can do right now.  Elliot  You saved the company.  Now  Why didn't you tell me about the DAT file?  You could've come in here at any time before the meeting  to say you found something, but you didn't.  I gotta be honest. I found that kind of curious.  Yeah, I didn't know what I had.  Could've easily been a junk file.  C'mon  You're never sure about anything  unless there's something to be sure about.  Maybe you don't know me that well.  Regardless,  I still need you to stay on it, now more than ever.  I mean, who knows what  these fsociety hackers are going to do next.  What did he just say?  - What did you just say? - The ones working with Colby.  Who knows how deep these data dumps are going to get,  and Evil Corp is  What're you talking about?  There's a twist.  You're usually the one a step ahead of me.  They hit the mother lode during the breach.  Potentially terabytes worth of emails and files.  They're threatening to dump everything  unless the FBI frees Colby.  They released the video this morning.  Hello, Evil Corp. We are fsociety.  Over the years, we have been watching you.  Your financial abuse of the poor;  your corruption of governments;  your cover-ups of the murder of innocent, ordinary citizens,  all for the sake of a profit.  This is why we at fsociety have decided you must die.  We are malicious and hostile. We do not compromise.  We are relentless.  We will not stop until every tentacle  of your evil monstrosity is sliced off at the nerve.  But we are also not without mercy.  Our latest hack was our last warning.  Meet our demands, and we will consider not destroying you.  First, release our leader Terry Colby  from your illegitimate prison immediately.  Second, release all the people of the world  from your even more illegitimate prisons of debt.  Third, dissolve your corporation  and donate all your assets to charities around the world.  This proposal is non-negotiable.  The people are realizing they don't have freedom of choice  so long as you exist.  The people are waking up,  no longer accepting your economic slavery.  Meet these demands, or we will kill you.  Consider yourself warned.  Play it again.  Yo, yo, yo, yo, my album just dropped.  Yo, please buy my CD. Only cost you 20 likes.  Yo, it'll give you the feels, y'all, I swear.  The CD's free. All's I ask is you Tweet.  Help my social media outreach.  You know, be like, "I want to set up this meeting.  It's like a very, like a " Oh, Elliot!  Hey, congrats, man.  Allsafe is all over the internet today because of you.  Dude, we should celebrate. We have this Groupon  for four at Morton's on Thursday.  This other couple we were going with totally bailed.  Why don't you come with?  Their steaks are badass. It's $29.95  I'm not sure that Elliot would like that.  Yeah, okay.  Yeah? Okay. Awesome, man.  And, hey, why don't we make it a double date?  I heard that you had a girlfriend.  Ollie, you weren't supposed to say anything.  Babe, it's cool. Elliot's okay with it.  Yeah, okay, sure. I have to go.  Um, my neighbor's complaining about the dog barking again.  - Since when does he have a dog? - Yo, yo, yo, yo, yo.  You look like a beautiful couple.  Yo, my album just dropped,  You like rap, hip-hop?  Yo, this shit is deep, lyrical, poetic.  Yo, your girl will like this, my man, I swear.  Come on, bro, you've been outside our building  for two weeks now.  All right, you know, I'll take it,  if you leave us alone.  Thank you, thank you, man, thank you.  And I'll tweet, but only if I like it, all right?  I only have 48 followers, but it's growing.  - No doubt, no doubt. - Some tastemakers in there so  I feel you, I feel you.  - Yeah. - All right.  Yo, I appreciate it, man, really.  - You guys have a good day. - Yeah, you too.  Thank you so much. Check track two out.  - Track two. - All right, man.  This was never part of the plan.  Data dumps? Releasing Terry Colby?  None of this makes sense.  Need to cut off all ties with fsociety.  Need to disconnect.  We need to call in sick and lie low for a  Dude! Jesus Christ! I am naked, asshole!  Don't stare at me!  Why the hell are you in my shower?  Well, I was waiting for you.  You were supposed to come last night.  - Did you forget? - Come? Where?  It's fine, everyone's coming later.  I'm stealing your clothes.  My dress has cum stains on it.  Jesus, I am just messing with you.  My stuff is just in the wash.  I'm gonna borrow this for the time being.  Oh, by the way,  your dog shat on your bed.  You gotta walk that thing.  Hey, please take Flipper for a while.  She probably needs a walk or something.  She keeps shitting everywhere.  Of course she needs a walk, Elliot.  She's a friggin' dog.  Yo, I want to stop and get some froyo before we go.  Uh, I'll be back later.  - I owe you. - Yeah, big time.  How do you know where I live?  Why wouldn't I know where you live?  I don't know. I don't know where you live.  Well,  I don't live anywhere at the present.  The douche I was dating proposed to me, can you believe?  I mean, what an asshole.  Anyways, we got into this huge fight, and  What the hell am I doing?  This chick is out of her mind batshit crazy.  I gotta go back, tell Gideon everything.  He'll understand, right?  He'll know what to do.  It's whatevs. He'll take me back.  He's just gotta get over this whole  "love is forever" bullshit.  I'll do my disappearing act for a minute,  and then he'll come to his senses.  Stand clear of the closing door.  You know, it's our thing.  Quick!  Can she see them, too?  What?  I like to stay on my toes.  Speaking of, that's, like, one of the most annoying things  But what if Tyrell finds out? What will he do?  Shit, there's basically no scenario in which  I'm not getting killed or going to jail.  Because I wanted a turtle, and he was like, "No"  I might need to crash with you for a couple of nights.  That's cool, right?  Seriously?  Fine! I'll crash at Mobley's.  Don't love dogs anyway.  Especially ones that shit in your bed.  I mean, how do you live like that, honestly?  How do you go to sleep when you know that there's  For all we know,  I could be walking into a trap right now.  We could be dead the second I walk through that door.  Come on, kid. We got big things in store.  Big things.  Man of the hour. Take a curtsy.  Goddamn ducks.  Hey, hey, man!  What's oh. Shit, sorry, sorry, dude.  Um, okay.  Anyway, just, awesome work, man.  Really awesome.  Right on, man. Right on.  - Real cool. - Great.  So now that we're all done going down on each other,  can we please hear the plan?  Where are we at with Steel Mountain?  If I'm not mistaken,  these lines aren't 100% safe yet,  and we still haven't made the Colby project disappear.  Seriously?  It's been weeks. Any links or traces  would have been owned by now.  The lines are clean, Boss, I swear.  - Thank you. - I mean, um  if it makes you feel better, Romero and I can check  Great! Make me feel great.  I'm gonna hang back over here, collect my thoughts.  Ohh!  What's her deal?  Ah, she's a complicated woman.  Most malware coders are. Am I right?  She showed up at my apartment.  Why does she know where I live?  Let's not focus on her. That'll be like  entering a bad K-hole you'll never wake up from.  Instead, I need you to focus on the next phase of our project.  Comet, the natural gas plant up around Albany?  We're gonna blow it up.  Why would you blow  Comet plant's right next to Steel Mountain.  Which, as you know,  is the off-site and data storage facility  for every corporation in the S&P,  including everyone's favorite  - Evil Corp. - Bingo!  You're gonna destroy their tape backups.  They're gonna be looking out for something like that.  They've been on high alert ever since the hack.  From what I heard, they've caught their hacker.  - Haven't they? - No, they haven't.  - Tyrell Wellick knows. - What they want him to know!  He's a corporate robot just like the rest of them.  Besides, the entire company is gonna be reeling  from all the data dumps we've got in store for them  and man, do we have some goodies.  Some good old-fashioned executive racism,  sexism, fascism.  Trust me, we are gonna "ism" so much all over them  they won't be able to see straight.  And asking for Colby's release as ransom was genius.  That'll only make his spotlight bigger,  keeping it off us.  That neat little ditty was Trenton's idea.  She may look innocent, but I'd be careful.  She's got some Allah Akbar in her.  And while all that's going on,  you will use your Allsafe security clearance  to hack the Comet PLC, increase the pressure,  causing a gas pipeline explosion  making Steel Mountain go kablooey  along with Evil Corp's soul.  They know about all this?  You're the first.  Workers?  Anyone living around the plant  They all die?  We'll give them a head start.  Sound some alarms. They'll be fine.  You're blowing up a gas pipeline.  The world is a dangerous place, Elliot,  not because of those who do evil,  but because of those who look on and do nothing.  This is war.  People will die. C'est la mort.  And once we blow up the pipeline,  Darlene's worm will kick into high gear  at the U.S. data center  which you helped to us install, thank you very much.  The redundant backups at their eastern data center in China  the Dark Army is covering us on that.  Dark Army? Why, man?  They got no code. They hack for anyone:  terrorists, North Korea, Iran, Russia  Which means they hate U.S. capitalism  just as much as anyone.  Last but not least.  Steel Mountain.  The hacker's dilemma. What to do  when a bunch of data you want to destroy  is completely off the grid?  I'm not killing anyone.  Tell me one thing, Elliot.  Are you a one or a zero?  That's the question you have to ask yourself.  Are you a yes or a no?  Are you going to act or not?  Yo you've been staring at a computer screen  way too long, homie.  Life's not that binary.  Isn't it?  Sure, there are grays  but when you come right down to it, at its core,  beneath every choice, there's either a one or a zero.  You either do something or you don't.  You walk out that door, you've decided to do nothing,  to say no, which means you do not come back.  You leave, you are no longer a part of this.  You become a zero.  If you stay,  if you want to change the world,  you become a yes.  You become a one.  So, I'll ask you again:  are you a one or a zero?  An innocent man is in prison because of what I did.  Come on, let's not kid ourselves!  This has nothing to do with Colby.  This isn't even about my revolution.  This is more than that for you.  This is about how those bastards slowly killed your father  and how you wished he'd done something about it.  But he didn't. Because he was a zero,  just like you're being right now.  Fuck you.  Disappearing again?  I'm not killing anyone. Leave me out of this.  You don't get to disappear from this.  We can do it with or without you,  but you're a part of it either way!  Yeah, even your stupid hoodie can't protect you, bitch!  This was a mistake.  I've gotta turn them in. Should I turn them in?  Will I get into trouble? Shit, she's right.  I'm culpable now. No, we're culpable.  You're in this with me, so start thinking of solutions now.  Shayla?  Yo, Shayla.  Yo, bro.  Can I help you with something?  I, uh just need to talk to Shayla.  Oh, your girl.  She in the tub.  Shayla.  Yo, she'll be out in a minute.  Can sit and wait if you want.  I think we should check on her, make sure she's all right.  You a funny dude. I like you.  Don't be rude.  Sit down and chill.  No, that's right.  You only do this.  Only nigga I know that take withdrawal meds while he using.  That's smart.  Probably even convinced yourself you ain't an addict.  Oh, shit.  Forgot to introduce myself. I'm Fernan  Fernando Vera, Shayla's supplier.  One of the worst human beings I've ever hacked.  His password? "eatadick6969."  Aside from the massive amounts of money  he spends on porn and webcams,  he does all his drug transactions  through emails, IMs, Twitter.  The fact that the cops haven't caught him yet is beyond me.  If they had half a brain cell,  they'd be able to crack his gang's simplistic code,  if it can even be called that.  After only a couple of hours of timing his tweets  with related news articles,  I figured out that "biscuit" and "clickety"  clearly referenced guns.  "Food," "sea shells" or "gas" for bullets.  And the ultimate: "rock to sleep early."  I haven't made the direct connection to a hit yet,  but the math of guns plus bullets  usually adds up to one thing.  I've thought about turning him in,  but he's Shayla's only supplier.  I take him down, I lose my drugs,  and with everything going on right now, I can't have that.  You get that, though?  Anyway, bro,  I ain't nothing to worry about.  Just making a drop for you.  What's your name, anyway?  Elliot.  What it mean?  What, you ain't never Googled it?  Man, you gotta do that.  The meaning of a person's name is important, bro.  Yo, she good! She good.  Trust me.  Took care of that shit myself.  You remind me of me when I was younger,  depressed and sullen.  Matter of fact, tried to kill myself, a couple of times.  Never could get that shit right.  Biology wasn't my strong suit.  I hated myself, man. Still do.  Thought that shit was a weakness for a long time.  Then I realized that shit was my power.  People walk around, act like they know what hate means.  Nah, no one does, until you hate yourself.  I mean  truly hate yourself.  That's power.  You ain't scared of me, are you?  That's good.  Means I didn't waste my time making friends with you.  You don't really need these, do you?  Man of your courage can last through a little withdrawal.  Ya know, you the only reason why I met Shayla.  I'm the only nigga in town carrying everything,  including your precious Suboxone.  So, in a weird way, I should be thanking you.  You brought her to me.  Your star orbiting with mine, gravitationally,  brought me the love of my life, Elliot.  I mean, this, us?  Being here?  This has  beautiful meaning.  But make no mistake, that girl in there  is mine.  I don't know what I'd do without her.  Now, I don't know what kind of arrangement  you had with her before, but now that we friends  I trust you respect this boundary.  Feel me?  A dude earlier today gave me that same look.  Only thing I gotta say is,  there's a smart time to be scared, bro  And a stupid time.  Shayla?  The lock pick.  Every hacker's favorite sport.  The perfect system to crack,  mostly because unlike virtual systems,  when you break it, you can feel it.  You can see it. You can hear it.  Shayla.  Hey.  Shayla.  Wake up.  Mm.  What happened?  You okay?  Why was that asshole here?  Why am I in the tub?  I don't know, um I told him I needed your pills.  He came over. We smoked a little.  You remember having sex with him?  What? No.  But he definitely does.  Okay, let's go.  - Get your purse, make sure - Stop.  I'm not going anywhere, okay?  What do you mean?  Oh, he's just gonna get away with it?  You can't go back to him. Hey, I don't need the pills.  - Just find someone else. - I can't.  He gives me a really good deal on the split.  I make good money.  There it is again,  the invisible hand at work, controlling us,  even if it pushes us past our threshold of pain.  It's not gonna stop.  What if he does it again?  Promise me you won't do anything?  I'm serious, Elliot.  There's nothing to be done here.  It's not like I have a choice.  Hey  Would you mind sleeping here tonight?  Choices.  Maybe Mr. Robot's right.  That's what this is all about, the yesses and nos of life.  But do we decide them or do they decide us?  Fernando Vera. I get rid of him,  I get rid of my drug dealer's supplier.  I get rid of the morphine.  And the pain I've been holding in comes rushing out.  Sure, I can try to find another dealer,  but like Vera said, no one on the streets deals Suboxone.  I could go back to digitally counterfeiting scripts,  but pharmas spend a lot of dough protecting their wares.  Most places only take paper scripts.  Continuously getting legit refills isn't realistic,  and neither is being a junkie.  So I quit cold turkey or let Vera exist.  I know what you're thinking. The answer's too obvious.  Vera may have been groping Shayla before,  but he's graduated to rape.  Just like Shayla, he's left me no choice.  He can't be allowed to exist anymore.  Perhaps we should start with how you're feeling.  Not good.  What's not good right now?  Everything.  Humor me with some specifics.  How do we know if we're in control?  That we're not just making the best  of what comes at us, and that's it.  Trying to constantly pick between two options.  Like your two paintings in the waiting room.  Or Coke and Pepsi.  McDonald's or Burger King?  Hyundai or Honda?  Hmm.  It's all part of the same blur, right?  Just out of focus enough.  It's the illusion of choice.  Half of us can't even pick our own  our cable, gas, electric.  The water we drink, our health insurance.  Even if we did, would it matter?  You know, if our only option is Blue Cross or Blue Shield,  what the fuck is the difference?  In fact, aren't they aren't they the same?  No, man  our choices are prepaid for us,  long time ago.  I'm sorry you feel you have no control.  Thought I was doing something good.  I was a part of this project.  Thought I was going to be a part of something special.  - And now? - Now  It turned out to be a mistake,  like everything else.  What's the point, right?  Might as well, just you do nothing.  Might as well do nothing.  You've brought up this issue before,  this issue of not feeling like you're in control.  Do you remember?  When we spoke about your father.  You talked about how he chose to do nothing  when he was battling his cancer.  You told him he could have  fought the company that caused it.  He could have told people about it.  He could have sought better care than what he was getting.  Instead, he did nothing.  Maybe your father felt the same way as you do now.  After all, like you said, what's the point?  - It's different. - What's different  is you've found options, Elliot.  That's the power you have. That's the control you own.  You don't have to just take what life gives you.  Come on.  Tell me what is going on with you.  I cannot help you if you keep me in the dark.  Shut up!  Shut up!  You've got bags under your eyes.  You're yelling. You're jittery.  For the last month, I have seen you  slip into old patterns, old behaviors.  What is going on?  He's still not answering.  Well, we'll just have to ask him tomorrow.  Every time I try to play it or rip it,  it just freezes up my computer and spits it back out again.  He's not okay.  He was acting so out of it at work today.  Um  Are you saying something, babe?  Something's wrong.  Should I go over there?  And just  Check in on him?  Uh come on.  That's ridiculous.  You know he's always been a weirdo, right?  I'm really worried about him.  Um  My Arizona buddy Fred hit me up.  He wants to grab a drink.  Shouldn't take too long.  Okay.    - Nice one, bro. - Nice.  "Deep passions, longing  The two of them had never felt such a love,  such closeness, such a connection."  - Found a way to do it without - Shh!  Sit down.  I know how to take out the backups  without blowing up the pipeline.  You know, Elliot, I really feel like we resolved  this thing between us. Didn't you walk away?  - I did. - Didn't I say  that if you walked away,  you were no longer a part of this?  I have a real plan  If you want me to let you back in,  there's an understanding we have to come to,  a debt you have to pay,  because, remember, you walked away.  I thought you didn't believe in debts.  Not true. I believe in debts.  I believe in erasing them.  What do you want?  I want you to tell me about your father.  You're not gonna get into my head, man.  Your David Koresh shit isn't gonna work on me.  Tell me how he died.  Why, man? Something tells me  you already looked that shit up anyway.  I wanna hear it from you.  So I do this  we go back to the arcade,  discuss the plan with the rest of them?  I don't know what you want me to say.  We were close. Very close.  He was my best friend.  Worked at Evil Corp his whole life.  He was one of the best computer engineers they had.  And out of the blue, he got fired.  No one knew why.  Then one day he told me.  He had leukemia.  Made me swear to never tell anyone,  especially my mom.  So I didn't.  A few months go by  he got sicker and sicker.  Finally, I got so worried  told my mom.  When he found out, he got pissed.  Started yelling.  I remember I tried to hug him, tell him I'm sorry, and  kept shoving me away and shoved me so hard  I fell backwards out the window.  I fell, and I broke my arm.  Never spoke to me after that.  Couldn't even look at me.  Even the night he died.  We good?  I understand what it's like to lose a parent.  It's heartbreaking.  Did you ever think he was right?  About what?  Hurting you that day?  For what you did to him?  You ever think you deserved it?  I didn't do anything to him.  I was trying to help him.  For betraying his trust.  I was eight years ol  You didn't commit to the sacred pact you'd formed.
I will be the youngest executive this company has ever seen.  All right, you know, I'll take it if you leave us alone.  All right? Thank you. Check track two out.  - I will, track two. - All right, man.  Why didn't you tell me about the DAT file?  Worked at Evil Corp his whole life.  Then out of the blue, he got fired. No one knew why.  He had leukemia. Made me swear to never tell anyone.  Finally, I got so worried, told my mom.  And when he found out, he got pissed.  You ever think you deserved it?  I was eight years old.  You didn't commit to the sacred pact you had formed.  My approach within our business units,  is to first invest in new technologies and develop prototypes  in order to understand the technology potential.  Because despite the recent success of our cybersecurity team,  our company currently still has  seventy-two potential hacker vulnerabilities  in our primary and second No, wait a second  You stupid piece of shit.  Again.  Our company currently still has 73 potential hacker vulnerabilities  in our primary and secondary data centers.  Now is not the time to be encumbered  by the company's tragic and shameful loss of our chief tech  Too formal, God damn it!  Warm it up, don't be a cold robot.  Again! Now is not the time  to be encumbered by the company's tragic and shameful loss  of our Chief Technology Officer.  We have to be swift in naming a replacement CTO.  And, sir, I would like to suggest it be me.  For the sake of our company  that we make our decision today.  My promotion  My internal promotion shows not only our confidence as a company,  but strength in our boldness to the public.  Thank you for your time.  You will be the next CTO of this company.  You will be the next CTO of this company.  You will be the next CTO of this company.  You sure you don't want anything? Pellegrino? Tea?  Sir, thank you again for seeing me.  Tyrell, I'm gonna have to reschedule this.  - Anwar, set up another time. - Sir, it's just that I think that  I get it, I get it. We'll get another meeting on the books right away.  We've got a really good CTO candidate  the board is very excited about.  They're not ready to discuss it yet.  We'll loop you in.  Just give us a couple of weeks. Hmm?  Uh, put Wellick back on the books. Two weeks.  Oh, nice tie.  Let me guess. Brioni?  Great taste, as always.  Be well.  I'll email your assistant the details.  If you could,  just email it to me directly.  This is too important for me to miss.  Happy New Year 2016 - New Year, New Color ;-)  Mr. Wellick, we're here.  Do you think I could have 300 this time?  Spoken like a true capitalist.  Bad day at the office?  No kicking  Argh. Please. Enough. No more.  Most coders think debugging software is about fixing a mistake,  but that's bullshit.  Debugging's actually all about finding the bug.  About understanding why the bug was there to begin with.  About knowing that its existence was no accident.  It came to you to deliver a message,  like an unconscious bubble floating to the surface,  popping with a revelation you've secretly known all along.  I don't know why I'm saying all of this.  Maybe it's because I'm pumped up on whatever smack legal drug dealers  like Eli Lilly make money off nowadays.  But usually it's because there's a sense it's coming.  A bug buzzing its way towards me  to gum up the works until it forces me to make a call.  "Kill me or embrace me."  Or maybe I'm just freaking out because I never thought I'd wake up  to find these two women staring back at me.  Are you awake?  I don't know.  What are you doing here?  We talked, maybe a few hours ago when I first got here.  You don't remember?  They said I was your emergency contact.  Um, all right. Um  You told them to call your psychiatrist.  You can't leave until you talk to one.  So I'm gonna wait outside.  Hey.  Do you remember requesting me from the staff?  You requested me because the police said that  I got jumped by a bunch of kids.  It's not the end of the world.  They wanted to do a full drug panel and you refused.  May I ask why?  Elliot, if we can't have a conversation about this  I've been taking morphine.  Why?  I don't have a good enough reason to give you.  I Wish I did, but I don't.  Maybe we should consider rehab.  I'm not a junkie.  Then you'll need to prove it to me.  Submit to a bimonthly drug test. Voluntarily.  That's the only way that I'll recommend your release.  Hospitals, a heavily networked one like this  are almost too easy to hack.  This is William Highsmith.  He's not only the head of the IT department here,  he is the IT department.  He's also an idiot.  Not that I blame him because the people that hire him are also idiots.  The poor guy only gets a budget of about 7,000 bucks a year.  And he's supposed to protect their network from people like me?  He never stood a chance.  He uses useless virus scans, dated servers, and security software  that runs on Windows 98.  It's one of the reasons why I made this place my primary care facility.  I can make my health records look like every other obedient zombie out there.  Okay. You don't have to worry.  I'm not going to do morphine again.  That's a nice breakfast.  Sorry, credit card system is down.  Like I said, the most difficult thing about debugging  isn't fixing the bug,  it's all about finding the bug.  For Evil Corp, Mr. Robot found that bug in me.  I was the mistake that led to all of this.  I have to ask you one thing.  Did you have something to do with Vera getting busted?  Shit, Elliot.  You said you weren't gonna do anything.  He's on murder charges, do you know that?  His whole crew bounced. I mean, I  I don't know what I'm gonna do for money now.  Just tell me, Elliot.  And don't lie.  Did you do something?  No.  Hmm.  Hey.  Hey.  Are you okay?  - I mean with everything that happened to - I'm fine.  What happened to your door?  You're not supposed to be here.  Okay, I changed the locks for a reason.  Mmm.  Interesting toy,  but you may want to spend a little more scratch if you actually want it to,  you know, work.  Check it,  Jessica Alba says she wants to join fsociety.  Jesus, what happened to your face?  What's going on?  Well, I'm not the princess of social graces,  but typically it goes something like,  "Hi, this is Darlene"  Stop.  You need to leave.  Babe, seriously, we have a lot of shit to discuss, so if you wouldn't mind  Get out.  I suggest you get a grip.  I mean, what was she talking about?  I gotta get to work.  Work? Are you serious? You can't go to work.  You have to call in sick.  I have to go.  A bug is never just a mistake.  It represents something bigger.  An error of thinking  Sir!  that makes you who you are. Sir! Sir!  Sir, you dropped your wallet!  Thanks. Sure.  Stop! Stop! He stole my purse!  That was your wallet?  Yes, that was my wallet you just gave him.  Stop!  He got into my system.  And he wants me to put the CD on one of the computers at work.  Why does he wanna do that?  I don't know, Stella,  he didn't give me a full explanation.  So, he's got naked pics of me?  Is that the only thing you're seriously taking away from this conversation?  Hey, babe.  Hey.  How was your run?  Strange.  Someone dropped their wallet.  And I picked it up to give it to them, but then this  Nothing strange about that, just shows how good of a person you are.  Always have been. Almost to a fault.  What does that mean?  Just that you  You're too good for the world.  That's probably why I love you.  I'm gonna hop in the shower.  I told you I can't talk.  You have 100 hours precisely.  After that,  everything we own will be released.  And it's not enough just to focus your attention on the logs.  We should also monitor social-media traffic, as well as IRC, Pastebin.  And set up scripts to keep going 24/7.  We might get lucky,  we might get sloppy, make a mistake, you know, catch some  This is the world we live in,  people relying on each other's mistakes  to manipulate one another, use one another,  even relate to one another.  The warm, messy circle of humanity.  Elliot?  I'm inviting you guys, uh, to dinner tonight.  Morton's notwithstanding, I cook a mean steak.  What? Can't a boss invite his favorite employees to dinner?  No, that's cool, but I got plans.  Can you guys give us a minute?  Yeah.  You wanna tell me what's going on?  Not really. Well  You're missing work, you come in looking like that,  and you expect me not to ask questions?  Look, I don't know how much you want me asking about your personal life.  But Not at all, actually.  I mean, I don't mean to be rude, just  I'm just being honest.  Mr. Robot may have found Evil Corp's bug,  but he didn't find mine.  That's the only way to protect myself,  never show them my source code.  Close myself off.  Create my cold, perfect maze where no one can ever find me.  Elliot! I cannot believe you work here. This place is a shithole!  Look, I thought I'd swing by, take you to lunch.  Oh, that's nice.  I think she likes you, bud.  All right, fine, I'll take her.  But let the record show, I was trying to be a good wing man.  Oh, calm down! Shit.  I'm not that into redheads anyway.  The whole nation of Ireland makes my dick soft.  Leave.  Darlene said we need to talk.  Leave, now.  You're right, probably shouldn't talk here.  Let's go to that bar next door.  I'm not going anywhere with you.  I'm not going anywhere until you do.  So, I can hang out here and create a scene,  or you can give me five minutes in the bar next door.  Either way, I'm gonna have fun. Dealer's choice.  Mmm.  What? It's an appletini.  I should kick your ass.  Mmm. If that'll make us square, you have my blessing.  Nah, man, I want nothing to do with you. You're a maniac.  What can I get for you?  Uh, nothing.  Uh, you should probably order something. I'd recommend this.  Fine.  I'll, I'll have a  Appletini.  You should it as a compliment, guy, these things are goddamn delicious.  I get it, compliments make me uncomfortable, too.  You know, I find that hard to believe.  Yeah, who am I kidding? I love compliments.  $12.  I really don't think you enjoyed that. I suggest sipping it  Last chance.  What do you want?  I'm sorry for what I did.  I don't buy it.  More importantly, I don't give a shit.  Hey, I never wanted to hurt you.  People who get violent, get that way because they can't communicate.  Your dad  I bet he felt shitty for doing what he did.  I'm sure he wanted to apologize, too.  Sometimes pushing your kid away is just easier.  Don't stay mad at him too long, kiddo.  You're leaving?  That's what you want, isn't it?  What about your plan?  Plan?  You're the key to the whole thing.  Without you, there is no plan.  That's it?  It's over?  You expect me to believe that?  See you in another life.  Did you hear that?  I can't believe it.  Is that really happening?  Fsociety's finally over.  The recent glitch in the otherwise neat reality I created over the years,  I'll never slip up like that again.  I'm gonna be more normal now.  Maybe Shayla could even be my girlfriend.  I'll go see those stupid Marvel movies with her.  I'll join a gym.  I'll heart things on Instagram.  I'll drink vanilla lattes.  I'm gonna lead a bug-free life from now on.  Anything to protect my perfect maze.  Hey, Gideon.  Is that dinner still on for tonight?  Um, yeah, sure.  Uh, uh, you want You want to come?  Yeah.  Great.  Can I bring my girlfriend?  You have a girlfriend?  Well, I haven't asked her yet, but I will.  Hopefully she'll say "yes."  Uh, yeah, sure.  Perfect.  Thanks.  Was he drinking Starbucks?  Are you still trying to rip that CD?  Yeah, it's all scratched up.  Let's get outta here.  My boss invited me to a dinner party at his place tonight.  Thought you could come as my girlfriend.  What?  Are you actually asking me to be your girlfriend right now?  Yeah.  Anyway, I need you. I'm not good in social situations like that.  There is something seriously wrong with you.  I'm I'm not gonna be used anymore.  Why don't you ask the girl from this morning, okay?  She seems like she might wanna go to some stupid, stuffy dinner party.  You don't actually know me.  All you know is that I'm  Of course I know Shayla.  I hacked her email as soon as she moved in next door.  With a simple phishing scam, I owned her password pretty easily.  I'm not talking about the stuff you can find online.  I'm talking about the real me.  Tell me then.  No. Forget it.  I wanna know.  What is this?  It's beautiful.  I've never seen this before, she must  never posted online. Um, I mean, a lot of 'ems not  They're not done.  She's got her own private maze, too.  Took a lot of different pieces, um, from different things.  From my photographs or drawings. And  Like, there's this one.  Um, it's really fucking corny.  But it's like Has everything. The kids and the  Shayla 's bug was always elusive to me.  Maybe this was it,  wanting normalcy, but stuck in the outer fringes.  Not knowing how to participate.  Just like me.  Can I kiss you?  Next time, don't ask.  It's lame.  Bugs usually get a bad rep.  But sometimes  Don't let me down, okay?  When a bug finally makes itself known,  it can be exhilarating.  Like you just unlocked something.  A grand opportunity waiting to be taken advantage of.  Mr. Wellick?  Hey.  What was your name again?  Anwar.  I didn't know you came to places like this.  I don't.  What do you mean? You're here now.  I'm here because you are.  What? I'm sorry, I don't get it.  I think you're beautiful. I wanna take you home.  Wait, I thought you were married.  Because, after all, a bug's only purpose,  its only reason for existence,  is to be a mistake that needs fixing.  To help you right a wrong.  And what feels better than that?  So, Elliot,  do you think you should introduce us?  Oh, um, Shayla,  Angela and Ollie.  You, uh You look lovely this evening.  What up guys?  You just get here?  Nice suit.  Thanks, dude.  What is up with you?  You've been fidgeting all night.  Maybe we should try the doorbell again.  Hey guys!  How have you been standing out here?  The doorbell is broken. I should have warned you.  Come in! I'm Harry, by the way.  Angela. Nice to meet you. Nice to meet you.  Hey.  Always nice to put a face with an employee badge number.  Right?  Ollie, how long have you guys been together?  Uh, two and a half years. Two years.  Okay.  Elliot, how long have you and Shayla been together?  Well, uh  Um, just Just today.  Okay, enough grilling of the guests.  Let's check on the real grill, shall we?  Elliot, I could use your help.  So, I have a confession.  I had the sys admins of the data center in Dulles check that server again.  Gideon, what did you do?  Of course, there was nothing.  I have no idea what there was to even be suspicious about.  I mean, what possible motivation would you have to do anything?  Gideon has to let this go.  If he comes near this hornet's nest,  I'm not sure I can save him from it.  I have to kill any suspicion left.  You've been nothing, but a hard worker for Allsafe.  So,  I apologize.  After the conversation on the plane,  I knew what was at stake.  The whole company.  I was worried that the DAT file I found wasn't the right one,  and I just didn't want to get your hopes up in case I was wrong.  That's why I didn't tell you before the meeting.  Shit, I'm gonna have to let him hug me, aren't I?  You're such a brilliant engineer, Elliot.  You should never doubt your skills,  no matter how much pressure I put on you.  And you certainly don't have to keep anything from me.  I care about you.  From the Mixed-Up Files of Basil E. Frankweiler.  That's where I got the idea, remember?  I wanted to be Claudia Kincaid so bad.  Even her name was cool.  Remember, we thought we were going to the Met,  somehow we ended up at the Queens Museum instead.  No Google Maps back then.  I loved running away with you.  Somehow, when you're eight, running away can be fun.  The normal life.  Smiles, dinner parties,  childhood stories.  I could get used to this,  maybe even like it.  What's wrong?  Evil Corp's hacking scandal continues  with the release of these latest emails.  Information stemming from the latest dump reveals  that Terry Colby was one of three high-level executives involved  in the cover-up of the widely publicized  Washington Township Toxic Waste Scandal.  If these reports are true, Colby may be facing more indictments.  In the ensuing 24 months after the alleged toxic waste leak in 1993,  26 employees died from similar types of leukemia.  Evil Corp, however, managed to get the class action lawsuit  filed against it by the surviving victims dismissed,  claiming there was no direct evidence linking their factories to the diagnoses.  Now, these emails indicate that Colby was in fact aware  of the dangerous levels of toxicity  and kept it a secret, as it quote, "Would not be cost-effective  "to retool the current systems in place, even if there are potential lawsuits."  End quote.  Mr. Colby was unavailable for comment, but his lawyers  My perfect maze  crumbling before my eyes.  data dump are further proof Colby was set up.  But they didn't indicate by whom.  There's nothing to hide behind.  I didn't think it existed, but there it was, is.  Mr. Robot finally found my bug.  linking the waste levels in Washington Township to the victim's illnesses.  Legal analysts support the claim that there is not enough evidence to  What's going on?  That's how my mom, um, and Elliot's dad  I have to go.  Well, wait Wait, let me come with you.  No, I'd rather you didn't.  Evidence in the Washington Township scandal.  Terry Colby remains under investigation  for his alleged involvement  with the Evil Corp executives  because there was no evidence linking the waste dump to leukemia.  Evil Corp is dangerous  Don't look so sad.  He did this to himself. He gave in. He was a coward.  He was weak and pathetic,  and, in the end, that's what killed your father.  Why are you crying?  Don't ask so many questions.  I miss him.  There's no point to that.  But I do.  Then you're just as weak as him.  You're not sad?  Why should I be?  It's a beautiful night.  The weather is nice.  And I'm enjoying my cigarette.  The bug forces the software to adapt,  evolving something new because of it.  Work around it or work through it  No matter what, it changes,  it becomes something new,  the next version,  the inevitable upgrade.  You're a strange creature.  I'm just a businessman.  And that's about as clean as I'm gonna get it.  You have to do the rest in the shower.  I don't mind being a little dirty.  I do.  You should join me!  Yeah, I'll be there in a minute.  Hey.  I'm sorry that I ran off like that.  Did you talk to him?  Nope. He wasn't home.  Well, I'm here.  I want to talk to you about everything, just not tonight, okay?  So, you'd talk to him, but not your own boyfriend?  It's different, Ollie.  Both of our parents died because  That's how we know each other.  I really don't wanna talk about this right now.  Well, what if I do?  What if you do what?  Wanna talk!  About  Something.  What the hell are you talking about?  I have to tell you something.  I don't know why you're You're putting yourself through this,  you don't have to keep looking at it.  All right? It meant nothing.  Okay, I know I sound like a broken record, but I love you,  and I wanna be with you. Stop speaking.  Just tell me what you need in order for me to fix this,  and I'll do it.  We need to break up.  Angela, come on.  What choice did you give me, Ollie?  Look, I know I have a problem,  I'm not denying that. Well maybe my problem is  I can't be with a guy with your problem.  Where's the CD?  It's in my In my bag. Why?  He has my bank account, Ollie. And my dad's bank account.  How did they Our accounts are linked  because of my student loans. I used your laptop to access it.  He has my dad's social security,  his credit card numbers, everything.  Okay.  Okay, that is bad, but I'm But I'm sure the cops will figure out a way  If we don't do what this guy says and we go to the oops,  then he's just gonna sell our information to the highest bidder,  and me and my dad are completely screwed.  Do you have any idea how difficult it is  to come back from massive identity theft like this?  What are you saying?  Angela? Are you crazy?  No. We cannot just infect Allsafe's network because of this.  I'll lose my job!  And there it is.  You'll lose your job too, if that matters.  Besides, even if we put the CD in,  who says this guy won't just do all of this anyway?  Hey. Hey, hey. Come here.  Look at me.  We are going to figure this out.  Okay?  You're right. You're right.  I'm sorry. I'm just scared.  I don't wanna break up with you. I'm sorry that I said that.  I love you so much.  This is Edmond Dulles.  Yeah, hi. This, um, Gideon Goddard at Allsafe Security.  I need to talk to Sean Skyler about server CS30 again.  Hold please. I'll transfer you.  Mmm-hmm.  Here's the plan.  Happy New Year 2016 - New Year, New Color ;-)
1 Steel Mountain. The hacker's dilemma.  What to do when a bunch of data you want to destroy  is completely off the grid?  Hello, Evil Corp. We are fsociety.  Man of the hour. Take a curtsy.  Dark Army?  They got no code. They hack for anyone:  Terrorists, North Korea, Iran, Russia  Yo, yo, yo, yo, my album just dropped.  Please buy my CD.  He has my bank account, Ollie.  We cannot just infect Allsafe's network because of this.  (Darlene) Can we please hear the plan?  Where are we at with Steel Mountain?  I know how to take out the backups  without blowing up the pipeline.  What do normal people do when they get this sad?  They reach out to friends or family.  I do morphine.  (Elliot) There it is.  After all the searching, scraping, dusting,  that's all that's left.  One line. The last line.  The consequences of busting Vera and meeting Mr. Robot,  creating you everything till now, this moment.  I chose this. I chose all this.  Data storage facilities like Steel Mountain  it's linear-tape open standard 9.  Temp value between 61 and 95.  Iron oxide in mag tape  it sticks to polyurethane with a binder.  If HVAC conditions surpass the ceiling 95 degrees,  polyurethane adhesive mollifies and tape data is unreadable.  [upbeat suspenseful music]    [sizzling]  This is what we're doing.  This circuit board, if installed behind a thermostat,  it lets us plant an asymmetric back door  then create a VPN in the Steel Mountain intranet.  Okay, we all know what a Raspberry Pi is.  What's your point?  He wants to hack Steel Mountain's  climate control system,  raise the facility's heat high enough  to destroy all the tapes.  And you think sticking this behind the thermostat  will do all that?  With the right software specifically designed.  I'll pull up my research on the facility,  start targeting which thermostats  are the most accessible.  Yeah, well, that's all well and good,  but we still gotta get in the damn joint.  (Romero) There. Deep in the Adirondacks.  In 145-plus acre former limestone mine.  3-ton steel gates, 24/7 armed guards,  closed circuit cameras, NOC staffing.  Sure you don't want to just blow it up?  - [scoffs] - [Romero exhales]  All we need is one security flaw.  Look at this place, man. It was built not to have any.  I see about six walking around.  [coughs]  You okay, man?  [coughing]  (Romero) What the hell?  Where you going?  We're done, aren't we?  (Elliot, voice-over) That was about the time the withdrawal started.  Remember?  I know I broke my own rule.  But I have no Suboxone.  What I do have clinical depression, social anxiety.  A day job, a night job, confusing relationships.  Others depending on me.  Taking down the largest corporation in the world.  And I chose it all.  This line has wanted to own me my whole life.  Biosynthesized in some lab in Mexico, packed into a pill,  shipped to the States where it was packaged  with a logo and taxed by the government,  stolen by a bribed guard, sold to a Vera henchman,  oversold to Shayla, and then to me.  It needs me just as much as I need it.  The moment was destined, every choice bringing me  closer to this one line.  This line. This last line.  I promise.   Today will be the worst of it.  Get through the next couple days, and then I'll be clean.  [shouts] What do you want?  Huh?  [knock on door]  [pounding on door]  It's me. Open up.  I would have saved you the trip to the door  but you're all, like, against me breaking in or whatever.  Why are you here?  Romero got some clarity on your little plan  that's gonna need your undivided.  - Okay, let's go. - What's going on with you?  You look like shit.  I'm fine.  [low chatter]  Look, man. This plan's not gonna work.  Why? Why is that?  I was doing recon on Steel Mountain.  Came up with a problem. A big, fat one.  Evil Corp's upping their security protocol.  If you ask me, it's overkill, but it's legit.  I already told you, they have their vulnerabilities.  So what happens after we hack the New York facility?  Then we have to take a trip to Nashville,  then Colorado, then San Jose,  then goddamn Tallahassee.  Ugh, this looks real bad. Real bad.  They are physically copying then shipping  all the analog backups.  Five big-ass fortress-like redundancies across the country.  Now maybe and it was always a big maybe  we get into one, but no way we get into all of them.  The minute we fry one facility,  they'll patch every climate control system they own.  No matter how you slice it, the plan is DOA.  Where'd you get this?  What the hell do you mean?  We're still in Evil Corp's network.  [softly] Shit.  This is what Tyrell was talking about.  What'd you just say? Tyrell?  As in Tyrell Wellick?  Yeah.  Since when did you and the goddamn CTO  of Evil Corp become, what, chums?  Says this isn't happening till April 1st.  It's only the 29th.  We still got a few days.  We have time.  All their tapes are still in the New York facility.  Just means we go up today.  We're nowhere close to being ready.  Well, I've already downloaded all the necessary PDFs  of the floor plans to target the thermostats.  It will require some planning,  but nothing I can't do in the car.  It shouldn't take me long to own  the facility's SCADA network.  Especially with some help.  You guys hit the road  while Trenton helps me  finish the distro.  We'll double-time it.  You can get it off the FTP server as soon as you get there.  What about China?  We'd have to execute the hack before Tuesday.  Don't worry about China.  I'll it up my Dark Army contact as soon as you take off.  Oh, you just gonna hit up  the world's most dangerous hacker crew?  Pssh, ya'll have gone and misplaced your collective minds.  We've been planning this for months.  Now we're gonna go up on a lark just 'cause he said so?  This plan is shit.  (Elliot) The plan will work.  And once we're actually there, I still need to prep  the social engineering, plus we have no idea  who physically's gonna go in.  It's my plan. I'll go in.  Look, man, you  you might be able to hide it from these nerds,  but I know a junkie when I see one.  In your condition, you ain't gonna do Jack or Jill  except puke your brains out  or give hand jobs for another high.  Like you said, in three days, one Steel Mountain becomes five.  That's no good for any plan.  Something ain't right about this guy.  Yeah, well. He's gotten us this far.  Still, I don't trust him.  Well, it's not about trust, remember?  [car alarm activates]  [device beeps]  Thank you, Mom.  - There it is. - All right.  Come to Daddy.  [tense bass rhythm]    [engine revs] (Romero) Yeah. Ha ha ha.  Yo, man.  You gonna say anything about this?  What's there to say?  You seem to have everything under control.  Yeah. Okay.  - This isn't my operation. - [laughs]  [coughing]  I told you before.  You're the key to the whole thing.  You're the only force of nature at play here.  (Elliot, voice-over) There's a saying.  The devil's at his strongest  while we're looking the other way,  like a program running in the background silently,  while we're busy doing other shit.  Daemons, they call them.  They perform action without user interaction.  Monitoring, logging, notifications.  Primal urges, repressed memories, unconscious habits.  They're always there, always active.  We can try to be right, we can try to be good.  We can try to make a difference,  but it's all bullshit.  'Cause intentions are irrelevant.  They don't drive us. Daemons do.  And me? I've got more than most.  [retches]  (Elliot) I just need to rest a minute, okay? I'll be fine.  (Romero) Bullshit a couple hours,  you'll wish you felt as shitty as you do right now.  Wait till the convulsions start.  Full body pains, leaking from everywhere, then  (Elliot, voice-over) Hypersensitivity to brightness and sound.  After that, overwhelming paranoia  followed by the darkest of depressions.  Symptoms may persist for two weeks,  assuming I last that long.  Yeah, I know what's in store.  Romero may have a point.  You're not gonna be good for anything till you kick this.  I it burns.  [shaky breathing]  (Elliot, voice-over) Don't be mad at me.  I know I slipped, but I'm about to change the world.  I'm about to change the world.  [soft thud]  - [whispers] Shit. - [inhales]  Mm, that is the way I like to get up in the morning.  Screw coffee or breakfast in bed.  The first thing I could see every day  is that sweet butt of yours.  I'd be the happiest dude in the city.  Are you going somewhere, babe?  Yeah, um, I'm gonna meet my dad for brunch.  What? No, babe.  I was gonna take you to brunch.  I mean, I know that things are, like, okay  between us right now, but I'm I'm not  gonna let myself off easy, all right?  You will be wined, and you will be dined  until I feel I've gotten myself out of the doghouse.  Well, we can do something tonight, then.  Perfect.  - Okay. - No.  [knock at door]  Oh, hey.  Is Elliot around? I tried texting him.  Uh, he didn't text me back.  Yeah, he's gone for the day,  which is why I'm on Flipper duty.  Where is he?  Shit if I know.  I mean, I don't ask details,  but he only ever tells me what he wants anyway, right?  And I'll tell him you stopped by.  Do you want to walk with us?  Flipper loves an audience when she pees.  Sure. Yeah. I gotta  head back towards the subway anyway.  Oh, we don't plan our path.  I mean, we just kind of wing it  and see where the moment takes us.  Come on.  Come on, before she bursts.  (Elliot, voice-over) Maybe this was all intentional.  My subconscious, running in the background,  making me doubt what I got everyone else to believe in.  Turning me into the physical manifestation of my fear  of being a  Goddamn waste.  Just give him a night to recover, okay?  - We still have tomorrow. - This shit'll last a week.  And I refuse to waste my time playing nurse.  We gotta get back, regroup, start devising a plan B.  [electronic stuttering]  (man) The rabbit is in the administration system.  - Send a flu shot. - Rabbit, flu shot  - Someone talk to me. - A rabbit replicates  till it overloads a file, then it spreads like cancer.  Cancer?  Hollywood hacker bullshit.  I been in this game 27 years.  Not once have I ever come across an animated singing virus.  I have yet to fly through a Tron City directory structure.  I bet you right now some writer's working hard  on a TV show that'll mess up this generation's idea  - of hacker culture. - [loud traffic noises]  [dramatic music]  [keys clicking softly]  All you had to do is ask, klepto.  I've updated the FTP.  All the files are ready.  - I've created - Any word from the road?  Jesus, it's been a full 24 hours.  Where the hell could they be?  Got any Advil?  [pills rattling]  I'm guessing you didn't make contact.  Nope.  Perhaps this plan was a little too ambitious.  We'll wait until the rest of them get back  and then reevaluate.  Sitting here helpless while we crash and burn?  Not my speed.  Even if they hack into Steel Mountain,  we need to hit China's data centers simultaneously.  If the Dark Army isn't compliant,  then there's not much we can do.  [laughs] God shit!  I got so wasted, I forgot it's Sunday.  I know where my guy will be.  (Trenton) Is that wise?  Those guys aren't known for being the most understanding.  I'm assuming if he wanted contact  What about what I want?  [rustling in purse]  I'm coming with you.  No, thank you.  You stick around, wait for the boys to FTP it.  Hey, Trenton.  Here.  - What is this? - Come on, they're my last two.  Is this ecstasy?  No, it's clarity.  It'll help you see past whatever's bringing you down.  I'm sorry. I don't mean to be rude.  I don't do drugs.  - I mean, I I smoke weed - Well, sorry,  but there's no take-backs, so  Besides, don't you want to figure your shit out?  For me, sometimes when I'm going through something,  just gotta I don't know.  Forget about it for a little while.  [clacking sounds]  [rock pop music in background]    Are you seriously drinking  a goddamn sparkling water right now?  If you weren't wearing my scarf, I'd kick your ass.  I think we should go.  Trust me he's here every Sunday, okay?  He'll show.  [dramatic music]    (Mobley) Jesus Christ, Romero. What are we gonna do?  (Romero) We dump him at a hospital,  come up with an alternative course of action.  - That's our only option. - (Mr. Robot) No. No hospital.  (Romero) Then we split. Screw it.  I mean, you say it all the time yourself,  there's casualties in every revolution.  All that matters is the end result.  We got no time to haul dead weight.  Fine! You wanna leave, leave.  Screw this, man.  [door closes]  I need a hit.  - [scoffs] - I'll be better.  Just to get me through this.  I can't let you do that.  One hit.  You know, just to get me back on the road.  We don't have time. This  needs to happen now.  One hit.  [tense music]  [grunts] Come on.  Let's go.  'Scuse me, fella.  You lookin' for something?  He could really use a helping hand.  Yeah, okay, he can go in. But only him.  Uh, no can do. I gotta come with.  Only if you're partaking, otherwise he goes it alone.  Here you go.    The guy in the house will set you up right.  Long as he doesn't kill you.  [laughs]  (Mr. Robot) All right, look, the minute you're done  you leave.  You don't look at anyone. You don't talk to anyone.  You take care of business and you get out.  Hey. Nod if you understand.  [tense music and drums]    [muted TV in background]  (man) You want?  [man coughs]  Hey.  Big eyes.  It's all good, man. Go on.  (Elliot) I just  I need morphine. Pills.  No, man.  This is all we got right here.  It's better.  [whispers] Trust me.  Go on.  There you go. There you go.  (Woman) I'll help.  It'll be okay. I'll help.  [TV continues in background]  [low chatter]  (Elliot, voice-over) Have I sunk this low?  What must you think of me?  Is it spring? Election year?  Shall I hibernate?  Did we meet? In money we trust.  No, I created stop.  I can't control thoughts. I need this.  I know I promised my last line, but  [exhales]  [TV continues in background]  [voices distort]  - [distorted voices] - Greedy bitch!  [thud, clatter]  [gunshot]  - [gunshots] - [squeals]  [men grunting]  - [gunshot] - Aah!  - [overlapping shouting] - Shit, man  [gunshot]  [shouting] [running footsteps fading]  (TV announcer) Wednesday, Thursday, Friday,  here's that seven-day forecast for the tri-state area.  Lots of clouds today, but mostly sunny  through Thursday with temperatures  in the mid to the upper 80s.  And you will notice that the humidity  will be a tad uncomfortable.  [static]  (Mr. Robot, synthesized voice) Dear brothers and sisters,  now is the time to open your eyes.  If you have not yet woken up to the reality  of profiteering and enslavement we've been warning you about,  I hope you realize we are fast running out of time.  The governments of the world and their corporate masters  do not want us to speak.  Why? Because we unlock truths.  We expose villains. We exorcize demons.  Citizens of the world, we are here to help.  If you have any interest in waking from your slumber,  in retrieving lost, damaged, or stolen memory,  we are here for you.  We have your back. We are fsociety.  [static, jumbled voices]  [distorted voice] What's it open?  It belongs to you now.  Made in the Orient.  Made just for your head.  Now, find your monster, then turn the key.  But first  a word from our corporate overlords!  [static]  (woman) If you see our logo, that means you can rest assured  that you're buying the best food,  clothing, shelter,  transportation, hygiene, electronics,  and life's necessities that money can buy.  [dog barks distantly]  [child humming]  [humming Frère Jacques]    Hello.  Hello, friend.  But we're not friends.  Can you tell me what happened to that house?  First can you tell me? What's your monster?  [giggles]  [giggling]  I think you dropped this.  [continues humming  Frère Jacques]    [Elliot picks up tune]  [both humming tune]  Ding dong ding   Ding dong ding   (Qwerty) Don't be shy now.  You can come closer.  Unsettling, I know.  Your pet beta fish chatting you up.  But time's money, Elliot.  You need something?  Your water does it need changing?  When you live in a fishbowl, ain't no such thing as change.  My entire life's been spent in this thing.  My whole world's on your side table.  I look around same shit, different day.  The lighting, the furniture.  Even the sounds always the same.  I'm on a loop,  and it won't stop unless my life does.  I'm exhausted with this world.  What can I do? I wanna help.  I think it's pretty obvious.  There's really only one thing you can do  for a brother in a fishbowl.  What is it?  [shouts] Move him to a goddamn window!  [dinner music in background] [muted conversations]  [phones ringing in background]    Angela, he's my friend.  Yes.  And he's delicious.  Here.  [soft piano music continues]    - (woman) Eat this. - Mm-mm.  (woman) Open.  It's piping hot, so consume with caution.  Pop's famous raspberry pie.  Enjoy.  [crunching]  Mm  Yes.  Yes!  Yes, Elliot, I do.  - [giggles] - [applause]  Elliot, I do!  - I do! - [whistles]  Don't you know your queen   [Too Bright's Queen]  Whipped   Heaving   Flower bloom at my feet     Oh   Don't you know your queen   Ooh   Cracked   Peeling   Riddled with   Those people in there  I just told them what they wanted to hear.    You're not gonna do it, are you?  Change the world.  Figures. You were only born a month ago.    You're afraid.  Afraid of your monster.  Do you even know what it is?    It doesn't fit.  Why not?  [voice distorts] Isn't it obvious?  You're not Elliot.  You're the  [static]  (Elliot) Hello? [Child laughs]  Hello?  [children laughing, voices echo]  [silence]  [ominous music]    (Elliot voice-over) Am I still alone?  Is this the face of my only friend?  Are you my monster?  [Elliot, synthesized voice] I am here. You are alone.  [overlapping video game sounds]  [bells dinging, volume increasing]  They all left.  They all left.  [mutters] They all left.  [voice breaks] I'm alone.  I'm alone.  [sniffling]  [whispering] I'm alone.  (Mr. Robot) No, you're not.  I'm not going anywhere, kiddo.  We're in this to the end.  (Trenton) Maybe you should just walk. Ballet seems  out of your skill set.  (Darlene) What? Screw you, young'un!  This bitch can plié with the best of 'em.  You know, when I'm not bangin' on a keyboard,  I'm schooling classmates with moves like this!  Ooh!  Good lookin' out.  I'm sorry he never came.  [distant pop music]  Let's let's just go.  I am a menace to society!  What?  - Wait, where are you going? - It's him.  [suspenseful music]    [yelling in Chinese]  Phone. Now!  Come on.  [shouts in Chinese]  [engine turns]  [Hell of a Night, muffled]  Go, go, go, go   Get up out your seat, you can have my drink   -  Let me see you dance  -  [cell phone buzzes]   Get up off your feet, you can be my freak   Let me see you dance dance, dance   When the sun falls   Then the moon lights   Why am I still out?  I have to be at work  - in four hours! - [laughs]  There's a lot I'm gonna miss about this gig.  What are you gonna do for money now?  [sighs] Oh, you know. Just be a hottie waitress.  I'm, uh Oh, thank you.  Glad you liked it.  Thanks.  Although I am glad I got in one last hurrah  before going all corporate.  [rap song continues]  You're not worried?  Worried about what?  I don't know.  I always get worried before starting a new job.  [laughs] No. I am definitely not worried.  Worry's a waste of time.  I mean, shit didn't work out at one job, so I got another.  That's all!  Go, go, go, go   You worry a lot, don't you?  [song continues]    Yeah.  -  When the sun falls  -  Go, go, go, go   -  Then the moon lights  -  Go, go, go, go   Might be a hell of a night, go   Oh, yeah, yeah   Got the whole world, trying to figure out Q   You can never find a [ ] do what I do   TDE, I'm the [ ] from the crew   Hit it one time, now she want round two   Ghetto [ ] but I love them bamboos   No [ ] but I chopped and screwed   She want a groovy type bucket hat dude   Champagne pop, I'm about that life   Molly gonna pop, I'm about that life   Molly gonna pop   Look in the mirror.  Might not remember this night   World might end so I'm livin' my life   Hanging out   See that badass bitch?  Go, go, go, go, go   That's the only person you should ever worry about.  Get up off your feet, you can be my freak   Let me see you jam, jam, jam   -  When the sun falls  -  Go, go, go, go   -  Then the moon lights  -  Go, go, go, go   Might be a hell of a night, go   Ooh ooh ooh ooh   -  Go  -  Go   Go   Ooh ooh ooh ooh   -  Go go go go  -  Then the moon lights   -  Go  -  Go   Might be a hell of a night   -  Ooh ooh ooh ooh  -  Go   Might be a hell of a night, go   Ooh ooh ooh ooh   Do you know how hard it's been for me to find you?  [whack]  Come here.  Yo, you need to chill.  Go to hell, asshole!  [chuckles]  There she is.  A ray of sunshine in the dark void of my existence.  Oh, poetic.  But not an apology.  I ain't apologizing for shit.  Oh, this is because I dumped your ass.  For real? You're gonna start pissing me off.  Sorry I wanted to spend my life with you.  What a monster I am.  Things are happening, Cisco.  We need to go tomorrow.  It's our only shot.  Then you never had one.  Look, I'm serious, Darlene.  These guys don't mess around.  Now, whatever it is you think you're doing  freeing the world, freeing the masses  the guys I work for,  they ain't motivated by kumbaya shit like that.  All right? Now, I'm warning you  for the last time.  Oh, come on.  You know how much this means to me.  Please  just talk to them.  My Aunt Esther cured all her habits with this  liquid anti-diarrheal for the well, you know.  Lemon and salt for the electrolytes,  decongestant for the runny nose.  This is the third one.  Seven more, you'll be good as new.  (Romero) I'ma go pull the van around.  Make sure he keeps chugging those.  Thanks.  Cool.  (Elliot, voice-over) Hello again.  Long time no  whatever it is we do.  I missed you. Where did you go?  Did you leave, or did I?  [low voice talking]  (Elliot) Maybe it was both.  Or neither. Doesn't matter.  [low voice continues]  [praying in foreign language]  Do those hopeful moments scare me?  Of course. Daemons, remember?  [ding]  At some point an "action without user interaction"  will come along and sweep my legs.  This spinning wheel of false highs and true lows  will continue.  That much I know.  [ding]  [suspenseful music]    (Elliot) Daemons they don't stop working.  They're always active.  [ding]  They seduce. They manipulate.  They own us.  And even though you're with me,  even though I created you, it makes no difference.  We all must deal with them alone.  The best we can hope for  the only silver lining in all of this  is that when we break through,  we find a few familiar faces  waiting on the other side.
1 He wants to hack Steel Mountain's climate control system,  raise the facility's heat high enough to destroy all the tapes.  This is what we're doing.  I'll hit up my Dark Army contact as soon as you take off.  You're just gonna hit up the world's most dangerous hacker crew?  He has my bank account, Ollie.  We cannot just infect Allsafe's network because of this.  I'll lose my job!  Evil Corp's upping their security protocol.  They are physically copying, then shipping all the analog backups.  We go up today.  I want you to be where you belong, here with me.  I think I'm happy where I am.  Don't let me down, okay?  That girl in there is mine.  Did you have something to do with Vera getting busted?  He's on murder charges, do you know that?  It's my plan, I'll go in.  You might be able to hide it from these nerds but I know a junkie when I see one.  I'm alone.  No you're not. I'm not goin' anywhere, kiddo.  Happy New Year 2016 - New Year, New Color ;-)  I wish I had better news for you, Fernando,  but this isn't the you're-getting-out meeting.  This is only as much as I could carry.  The DA has more.  How long this gonna be?  We're talking years.  Yo, are you playin'? You get our people out. That's your use to us.  They have a solid case.  For every charge they're gonna lay on you, they have these binders,  your Twitters, your Instagram.  - You said they wouldn't figure this They can't, bro.  I'm tellin' you, it was airtight, V.  Fellas, this isn't The Imitation Game.  The code here is not that complicated.  Besides, who told you to put your business anywhere near social media?  My aspirational little brother.  You know how much money we saved last year?  Made our whole operation way more efficient. We were careful.  You tweeted about every transaction your business was involved in.  That is the opposite of careful.  It's no wonder an anonymous tip turned you in.  Who called in the tip?  This is what is meant by anonymous.  It is now spilled milk.  The information got out and now they're coming down hard.  There's no plea on the table.  They're gonna lay murder one on you.  I ain't pleading anyway. Men can't sentence me.  That is a cosmic responsibility.  Someone's gonna get hurt for this.  That's how we get square with the universe.  Fernando, we need to discuss strategy.  You don't want supermax. No, uh  If they lock me up, the kind of door they close don't matter.  So, that's you. That's who you are.  I know you.  Mmm-hmm.  Excuse me. Pardon me. Pardon me. I already paid.  I just wanna pay my respects. Thank you.  Oh, I'm sorry man. I'm sorry.  I just wanna pay my compliments.  Hey, excellent coffee. Fantastic service.  Buy yourself something nice.  Steel Mountain.  We're trying to penetrate a data security facility whose tagline literally is  Nothing ls actually impenetrable.  A place like this says it is, and it's close,  but people still built this place.  And if you can hack the right person,  all of a sudden you have a piece of powerful malware.  People always make the best exploits.  I've never found it hard to hack most people.  If you listen to them, watch them,  their vulnerabilities are like a neon sign screwed into their heads.  Mobley is a glutton, who lacks discipline from his urges.  I don't want to get bugs. They spread disease.  Romero is a know-it-all. And a hypochondriac.  Bill Harper is our first exploit.  He isn't gonna give the search much scrutiny. He can get us to Level One.  But Bill is not gonna be able to get us to Level Two.  And we need to get to Level Two.  You're gonna ask to speak to his supervisor, Wendy.  She'll get us to exactly where we need to be.  Then we'll be able to get rid of her from the van.  After that, you'll connect the Raspberry Pi to the climate control system  and Bob's your uncle.  Now we can hear you, and you can hear us.  Mr. Robot? His flaw is he's absolutely insane.  We're talking clinical.  When they say, "If your friends jump off a bridge, would you?"  He would, without hesitation. Just to prove something.  He goes in there, he's liable to blow the whole place up,  just like he wanted to in the first place.  Sure you don't wanna look over the info and the map again?  I got it. Okay, James Bond.  Let's go mess this shit up. Boom, boom.  Yes, I also have security flaws. I don't like being outside.  I liked morphine too much. Mr. Sepiol?  I'm talking to you right now and you don't exist.  Sam Sepiol? Sir?  That's you, Elliot.  Okay. So sorry you had to wait.  As you can see, there's always a lot of bustle here.  How can I help you today?  You need a tour. Don't elaborate.  Uh, a tour.  Okay.  I'm sure they told you at reception that we require appointments for tours.  My supervisor gives us all a hard time about that.  I'm Sam Sepiol.  You should look me up.  Okay  A little inelegant, but we can work with it.  Tell you what, have your company call over to new accounts  and we can set something up later this week. Ask for Bill Harper.  They'll know where to find me.  “Listen Bill, you think your boss gives you a hard time now?"  "You're gonna get a really hard time right after I walk out of here."  "I'm not rescheduling, Bill."  "When I walk out that door, I'm never coming back."  That's your ass, Bill.  I really think you should look me up.  It It just doesn't work like that, I'm sorry, sir.  You take care, okay?  I'm coming out, it's not working.  It's gonna work. Hang in there.  I was being too weird.  Just like every other tech billionaire.  Slow your roll, it's gonna happen.  It's no wonder Wikipedia is never accurate, anyone can edit them.  Well, not anyone.  Nerds like Mobley built a lot of credit over the years  With his 20,000 edits.  And still, people trust it.  Beholden to all the Mobley's of the world for their information.  Mr. Sepiol? Uh, Mr. Sepiol!  I have some good news.  Stop it. Stop it. Can you stop packing for like five minutes?  Can we just hash this out like adults? I love you.  You don't even know why you're crying.  Let's get married.  Ollie, will you please stop?  Angela, Angela, you can’t just give up on us like this.  I mean have you even thought this through?  What are you gonna do? Go live with your dad in Jersey?  Come on.  You're ruining your life. Maybe.  But I also ruined yours.  Why do you have my work ID?  Did you Do you Do you  Do you know what's gonna happen?  There will be fallout from this and I'm gonna tell them.  I used your computer.  So, tell them whatever you want.  Are you seriously  Did you even think about how this would affect me?  I did.  Here's an idea of how big this place is.  We have our own fire department.  Inside the building. Just for us.  And you can't have a fire department without a fire truck.  And you can't have a fire truck without roads.  We have all of that.  Inside. Imagine that.  Elliot, now's the time we get rid of Bill.  There's so much information  Okay. We're gonna need to roll up our sleeves.  You have to destroy Bill in order to get to his supervisor.  There's one vault in here that's 200,000 square feet.  That's the size of a shopping mall.  And that's just one.  Bill, where Where are those giant vaults?  Oh, they're on Level Two. But that's not part of the tour.  Even I don't have authorization.  He's not gonna take you for ice cream. He has to go away.  There's no place in this plan for Bill.  Now, right down here  Everything okay, sir?  We need to tear Bill down, piece by piece.  You need to wipe that smile off of his stupid face.  Sir, are you okay?  You're not You're not saying anything.  Dig into him, Elliot.  You of all people can do this, Elliot.  You know how it feels when someone makes you small.  You understand what happens when someone exposes the thing  you fear most about yourself.  - Answer me! Answer me!  Get up.  Just get  I hate you.  You're nothing.  You're worthless.  Think about it, Bill. Think about what?  If you died, would anyone care?  Would they really care?  Yeah, maybe they'd cry for a day,  but, let's be honest, no one would give a shit.  They wouldn't.  The few people that would feel obligated to go to your funeral  would probably be annoyed and leave as early as possible.  That's who you are, that's what you are.  You're nothing to anyone.  To everyone.  Think about it, Bill.  Because if you do, if you let yourself,  you'll know I'm telling you the truth.  So, instead of wasting any more of my time,  I need you to go call someone that matters.  Because, Bill  You don't.  I'll, um I'll call my supervisor.  And that's why Bill Harper is a perfect exploit.  Desperate enough for the business to break protocol and let me in.  Lonely enough to break.  I need a supervisor in L-1, S-3.  Copy that.  Don't Don't apologize.  You're almost there. You did great.  Once Wendy gets there, we'll send her a text  letting her know her pregnant wife is in labor.  Once she leaves, that should give you enough time to plant the Pi, you dig?  Trudy Davis, Accounts Supervisor. Is there a problem here?  Mr. Sepiol Trudy?  is asking for someone more senior than me.  I don't seem to have your name.  I'm Sam Sepiol?  Is that a question?  Trudy? Trudy? Wendy.  We only prepped for Wendy. Where the hell is Wendy?  I need Wendy, actually.  How do you know Wendy? She didn't come in today.  What is it that you need Mr. Sepiol?  Um, I would love a tour of Level Two.  I don't know what you've been told but we don't allow that.  I'll see you out. You can go, Bill.  Follow me to the lobby.  This woman's a ghost. None of these are her.  No Facebook, no Linkedln.  She's been married for 30 years.  All we have is her husband's cell phone number,  he doesn't even have a picture online.  No hobbies, no kids, no credit problems, no weird sex stuff. House paid off.  So, I need I need to think.  The elevator's almost here.  Yes. That's how they work when you press the button.  Okay.  People People are all just people, right?  When it gets down to it, everyone is the same. They love something.  They want something. They fear something.  Specifics help, but specifics don't change the ways that everyone is vulnerable.  It just changes the way that we access those vulnerabilities.  I, uh, I have to go. I'm sorry. I need to go to my office.  Reception will see you out.  - What'd you do? - I spoofed a text from her husband.  - It's a palm print scanner. - Get out of there.  There's one door manually locked.  It's a fire code thing and I think you can pick it.  Where?  It's at the end of the hallway if you're heading north on L-1.  The stairs don't go to Level Two. They go to a parking lot.  You're on the complete wrong side of the building.  You're gonna have to double back  and go through the door you came in and make a run for it.  Elliot?  I thought I saw you. What are you doing here?  Thank you! Y'all come back to Wingstravaganza.  Okay, real important, Wingstravaganza means "wings" and "extravaganza."  Oh, do you know what "extravaganza" means?  Yep. It's a big deal. You got it.  Mmm-hmm. You look nervous.  Are you excited?  - Oh, yeah. - Okay. So, you'll shadow me for the week.  But don't sweat it. It's like every other server job.  Well, I've actually never been a waitress before.  Oh. This is kinda like a new beginning for me.  What were you doing before?  Pharmaceutical sales. Fancy. You must've made bank.  What happened? Um, you know, Obamacare.  Right this way.  Welcome to Steel Mountain's data center.  Our facility meets diamond specifications  and features a tier-10 certified build and design,  providing you with a safe, rock-solid fortress for your data needs.  All of our facilities implement comprehensive security  measures including rigorous background checks  Exactly.  So, yeah. Elliot.  Nice meeting you. You, too.  Tell your wife I said hi. I will.  Those men I just shook hands with,  financiers of Hezbollah and ISIS.  I wouldn't stare.  Did he know I was gonna be here?  Does he know why I'm here? Shit, he's gonna kill me.  As you were saying  Uh, just a routine data process check.  Allsafe does 'em all the time.  But why would they send you?  That type of thing isn't usually handled by the engineers, is it?  We've been overlapping a lot in our duties.  Budget reasons.  It seems we both had the idea to work off-site today.  Let's call this fortuitous. Join me for lunch?  Sure Sure. I eat lunch.  So you are like the rest of us.  Come.  He got owned man. We gotta go!  We're not going anywhere. This changes nothing.  What can I get you, Elliot?  They have a lot of things here.  He has a vulnerability.  He's an arrogant prick. And he's proud of it.  He cares what you think about him,  even though he probably hates that he does.  Tyrell Wellick's greatest asset is his hubris,  but it's also his flaw. And that's your exploit.  would be nice.  You eat here?  This place?  Is that your plan? To piss him off?  No, wait, man. Wait.  Now, remember, Elliot, you lose our signal on Level Two.  Elliot?  Elliot? Can you even hear us?  I'm impressed you came all the way out here.  Allsafe is finished, but you won't let it die.  We're the same. We're perfectionists.  I've seen our waiter here for the last seven years.  He must be in his fifties.  Maybe has kids, divorced, second wife, more kids.  And I wonder what must he think of himself?  His life's potential reached at a 30-grand a year salary.  An economy car he still owes money on.  A two-bedroom apartment. Child support. Coupons.  I couldn't bear it. A life like that.  The life of an ordinary cockroach  whose biggest value is to serve me salad.  as a backup.  I'm getting a signal on that right now.  I have to go to the bathroom.  Goddamn withdrawals again.  Or is it Tyrell Wellick? Is he toying with me?  What kind of game are we playing?  Am I his malware?  I had to wash my face.  Hard to breathe here.  I know you framed Terry Colby.  I I didn't. Your father worked at Evil Corp before he died.  That's a matter of public record.  I'm not turning you in, if that's what you're thinking.  I don't even have proof, and even if I did, I don't care.  I just wanted to know your weakness and now I do.  Revenge.  How ordinary.  It's like our waiter.  But even extraordinary people,  and I believe you are, are driven by human banalities.  And unfortunately, we're all human.  Except me, of course.  I'm joking, Elliot. Enjoy your long drive back home.  I'm having a helicopter take me back to New York.  You take care, Elliot.  No. Bullshit.  Dude, bullshit. What did they say?  Oh, I don't know, basically that they're a bunch of dickless assholes.  Where you going? To fix it.  No one else is going to.  Darlene, wait.  I really don't think you should keep pushing them.  Put it this way, either I'm fixing this or breaking it.  Their call.  Hi, pumpkin.  Hey, Daddy.  Why aren't you at work?  I broke up with Ollie.  I know. Just got off the phone with him.  Come on.  He was sobbing.  He wanted me to tell you something like,  "I'll always love you. Please come back."  Oh, and he can learn to forgive you.  Jesus.  What did you say?  I told him that I thought you should have broken up with him a long time ago  and hung up on him. Nice.  What did he mean, anyway?  Just normal work and money stuff.  And, well, he cheated on me.  So, there's that.  Well, the cheating part, I'm not surprised.  Not trying to make you feel bad, honey, but come on,  the kid's a douchebag.  As for the money Dad, no.  I'll float you some money.  For professional development. Dad.  Call it a loan.  But do not pay me back.  And you'll stay here and commute until you can save for an apartment.  I can't make you do any of that. And you didn't.  It's what I want.  Are you hungry?  Yeah. No, no. Sit. Sit, sit. Relax.  What would you like?  You don't need to cook for me, Dad.  French toast, coming up!  Mmm-hmm.  Shh.  Why are they backing out?  This is a library.  You want to discuss that, go back to the IRC island.  They banned me from the channel.  What happened?  We just owned Steel Mountain. We did our part and it went perfect.  Come on, we both know that shit didn't go perfect.  Well, it doesn't matter, they called it off.  We pulled our side together and your side called it off like it was nothing.  You got your answer.  You better tell your pal Whiterose  to stop being a pussy and start growing a pair  because we don't have time to dilly-dally around.  And now you're gonna talk about this in the world?  Do you even care who hears you?  Face it, Darlene, it's over.  Walk away.  I can't go back to my people with that.  Tell me why.  You said the Dark Army was with us on this.  Between us?  I'm not about to goddamn tweet about it.  They were out before you ever got to Steel Mountain.  I don't know why. That's all they said to me.  I know you had your heart set, but for real this time, just let it go.  I meet suits, mostly.  No, I imagine it must be exciting to work in government.  It's like a spy movie.  Can you read my secret emails?  No.  My job is mostly paperwork and bureaucracy.  They always want more than the technology allows.  I don't even have time to read your secret emails.  But it's a stopgap. For me, I'm restless.  So, I'm always itching for something else.  There have been a lot of something elses.  For both of us. Mmm-hmm.  Before this, I worked at an NGO.  And before that I worked at, um, Microsoft for a year,  which felt like a decade.  Your place is beautiful.  I wish I could take the compliment.  The decorating is Scott's domain.  No? Really? Yes.  Very nice. Yeah.  Where's all the The antiques from?  They're They're  So they tapped you for CTO, yes?  Don't be surprised.  Suspicious is more accurate.  I was beginning to wonder why you set this dinner.  Four people in the world know about my conversations.  And somehow, you're number five.  Then I'm exactly what you need in a right hand.  So, that's what this is about?  Isn't everything about something?  Like we were thinking about, is it baby-proof?  Uh-huh.  Yeah, that's That's a consideration.  If you were me, would you trust you as your right hand?  If I were you, I wouldn't have even let me in the house.  Hey.  Hey. It's me. Is now a good time?  Yeah. I'm at my new job.  - How's it goin'? - Seriously, it's hard as hell,  but I'm getting the hang of it.  At first it took me, like, years to marry ketchups,  but it turns out, I'm amazing at upselling expensive cocktails.  I'm not surprised.  And then when I have to put together to-go orders,  it's like bagging molly so I'm like kind of an expert.  How are you?  I'm good.  Wow. I've never heard you say a sentence like that before, ever.  I did what I had to do today.  Well, if you're around tonight, come over and tell me about it. Okay?  I gotta go. Okay, bye.  You seem to know how to drink your wine.  I indulge in few things. But, I do love wine.  Yourself?  In my other life, when I could drink for one.  But, even then, I had cheap tastes.  It's, uh, safe to smell, though. Put your nose in there.  You know, to me, it smells like every wine.  But I'd love to learn. Uh-huh.  Dried red fruit.  Fresh violet.  Uh, lemon peel.  Try it again.  Smell. Really, really think about it.  Mmm, I do smell the lemon.  Sharon? Yes?  How do you not blow your brains out  being married to him?  Excuse me?  Shall I repeat the question?  You're a guest in our house. A very honest one.  Wow.  I think I'll mistake what you said  as a joke in poor taste and excuse myself to the bathroom.  Well, I have a beautiful vintage over here.  I would love to just show you the label.  Let's see here. Nope.  Nope. There's the one.  This is my prized possession, actually. Take a look at this.  I'm in here.  Can I help you?  Thank you for a lovely evening.  Siege and storm!  We got problems. Is the Pi online?  Yeah, we're in the whole system.  We could deliver the whole payload right now if we wanted.  - And yet, I hear no applause. - Then applaud.  You have to tell them.  What?  We lost China.  I'm sorry? The Dark Army is bailing.  - Why? - They don't answer "whys," apparently.  That's no problem, we'll just call 'em back, we'll set up another meeting ASAP  Dude, did you not hear me? They've gone dark. It's not happening.  I know, I know. I get it, okay, I fucked up.  Let's not wait, then. Let's do it anyway.  Just us. Let's do it. Right now.  Okay? We execute now.  We execute on our side and trust that the Dark Army  gets their shit together and follows.  Why do they get to dictate terms? We dictate terms.  Shh, shh, shh. We can go now.  If we move forward and they don't, China still holds all the redundant information.  It will be pointless.  And if we wait, it'll also be pointless.  Everything you guys did today would be for nothing.  Ah, are you crazy!  It will have no effect!  It'll take down their network for weeks. They'll recover!  It would still hurt them.  We don't want to hurt them, we want to kill them.  And neither will happen if we do nothing, right now.  What are you doing? Huh?  Take another step, and I'll do it.  Think about what you're doing.  Okay? All right?  In a month, they're gonna be up and running again with even better security.  We are not gonna get another shot at this.  The revolution that we've always talked about will be gone.  Dead and buried.  We will have failed because of you.  Please, do not do this.  Is there anyone here who can communicate with this woman?  Please.  Tell me it's okay to execute.  But we were so close.  It's not over.  We'll rework it. We'll figure something out.  We got this far,  we'll find a way. Just not tonight.  This is all my fault.  Come on. You can crash at my place.  My father picked me up from school one day  and we played hooky and went to the beach.  It was too cold to go in the water  so we sat on a blanket and ate pizza.  When I got home, my sneakers were full of sand  and I dumped it on my bedroom floor.  I didn't know the difference. I was six.  My mother screamed at me for the mess.  But, he wasn't mad.  He said that billions of years ago the world shifting  and oceans moving brought that sand to that spot on the beach  and then I took it away.  "Every day," he said, "we change the world."  Which is a nice thought until I think about how many days and lifetimes  I would need to bring a shoe full of sand home until there is no beach.  Until it made a difference to anyone.  Every day we change the world,  but to change the world in a way that means anything,  that takes more time than most people have.  It never happens all at once.  It's slow. It's methodical. It's exhausting.  We don't all have the stomach for it.  Hey, sweetie.  I'm gonna go for a run.  Nice.  Shayla's got the dog. She doesn't shit on her pillows.  That's a plus, I guess.  - Shayla? - Hey, bro.  Sometimes, the universe aligns perfectly.  Here I am, locked away, but still, it brings you right to me.  Happy New Year 2016 - New Year, New Color ;-)
1 Did you have something to do with Vera getting busted?  Who told you to put your business anywhere near social media?  My aspirational little brother.  Someone's gonna get hurt for this.  What happened to Angela?  She's not gonna work out for us.  Not on this level.  You didn't have to stick up for me in there.  Don't do it again!  Evil Corp tapped you for CTO, yes?  You're ruining your life. I also ruined yours.  Terry Colby was involved in the cover-up  of the Washington Township toxic waste scandal.  Sharon, how do you not blow your brains out married to him?  I'm in here.  Do you mind sleeping here tonight?  That girl in there is mine.  If you're around tonight come over and tell me about it.  Shayla?  Sometimes the universe aligns perfectly.  Here I am locked away, and still it brings you right to me.  I feel the sensation, fight-or-flight.  It's constant.  I should just pick one.  I, Elliot Alderson, am flight. I am fear.  I am anxiety, terror, panic.  Some velvet mornin' when I'm straight  I'm gonna open up your gate  Doesn't feel real.  You should eat.  Not hungry.  I don't even know what I ordered.  I'm sorry.  You don't like the guisada?  Uh, no, it's It's good. Thank you.  What are you thinking about?  The first time we met.  Doesn't feel that long ago.  And now look at us.  Who woulda thought?  If I could go back and undo this  You can't.  You promised me.  I'm gonna get you out of this, okay?  Time's up.  Let's go. Wait.  Sit down.  Come with me.  Let's go.  Happy New Year 2016 - New Year, New Color ;-)  - Hello? - VERA: The origin of your name,  I looked it up for you, bro.  Where are you taking her?  Elliot  "Brave and true."  Did you know the origin of "brave" evolved from "savage"?  I don't know what you think this is about.  But you need to let her go.  Yeah, well, funny thing. My name means something similar.  "Brave traveler, adventurer."  A savage traveler becomes a brave traveler.  Are we savages, or are we brave?  Don't know, bro.  Listen to me, man.  When I found out you did this, I didn't get angry.  I got impressed.  Your power. I want it, Elliot.  And I want it so bad it makes my dick hard.  And I want it today.  Yo, I don't know what you think I can do,  I can’t just hack you out of prison.  Not all prisons are networked and even if yours is,  it would take weeks to find security holes.  Has to be tonight. I got crosshairs on my heart.  I don't make it out, I'm dead.  And that ain't meant to be just yet.  You do your thing, bro.  You're asking the impossible.  When we cross paths tonight, Elliot, I'ma hug you.  Please listen, man. Yo, Shayla.  This is on me,  okay? You gotta let her go.  Oh, that? She cool, bro. Trust me, she cool.  She'll be there tonight, too. It'll be one big happy-happy!  Hey, Elliot.  I love you, bro.  Where's Shayla? Man, I'm not gonna tell you again.  Stop askin' so many questions.  Come on.  Vera may be out of his mind.  But, yes, it is possible to hack into a prison's network.  Most of them use regular industrial control systems.  I'm a blind man to what Vera sees in this dude.  Amen. Techie computer hacker genius, my thick Dominican dick.  When you have control of that,  you basically have control of the cell doors.  But what these morons don't know is,  it's almost impossible without any research.  Time to shine your cojones and get to work.  Our only rule, "Do what we say."  You violate that dictate,  we kill your sweetheart.  Yo, yo, Isaac, uh, how my dic-tate? Mmm?  Shut up, bitch.  "Dic-tate."  Vera's bro, Isaac.  Something about him bugs me.  And you know what I like to do when that happens?  Hi, I'm trying to reach Mister Beckett.  When would Mister Lattimer be available?  I can come in today.  I already told you what it's in reference to.  I'm trying again for Mrs. Nayar.  Regarding the Washington Township scandal.  I may have found some information.  Please don't put me on hold again!  Happy Monday, Angela.  How fun.  Thanks. Mmm-hmm.  I'm Emily Moss' daughter  Angela Moss. I called Six times.  Yes. I'm here to discuss the Washington Township case.  I'm listening.  You represented the victims' families.  Twenty-six families. Mine included.  I thought, with the latest news in the data dumps,  the Terry Colby scandal,  his covering up the chemical waste spill  Alleged.  Well, and documents.  Superficial.  But if we bring this stronger, more concrete case.  You'll see that I have the evidence from the data dumps,  along with further research  Stickies. Oh, you've highlighted and underlined.  This is serious.  So, you wanna take Internet gossip to federal court  and throw it at the strongest conglomerate  in the history of civilization?  Guy in the suit.  Twice convicted of sexual assault,  charged again this past weekend.  Raped his pregnant girlfriend, bashed her head in with an Xbox.  Claims she cheated during Halo.  Yet I have a better chance of defending him.  You called back.  I called every lawyer from this case.  And you're the only one that called me back.  Shit, shit, shit  "Connection closed by remote host"?  But we had a fish. I was in.  The exploit started to run and then  Was it the code? Bro, what's the deal?  I gotta take her for a walk. Why?  'Cause she'll piss on the floor if I don't.  You think I give a shit about your goddamn floor?  I'm just playin', brother. Yeah, you can take her.  You hear what I said?  I said you can take her.  Come on.  It's out. Okay, gotcha.  Did she like my little toy?  Did you write that exploit yourself?  I had an hour.  So, what, you just pulled code from Rapid9 or some shit?  Since when did you become a script kiddie?  I repeat, I had an hour.  Malware detection must've caught it. You fucked me.  Hey, don't put this on me.  Okay, this is a shit show and you gave me no time to do it right.  I can run circles around an ICS given the proper whitepapers and time.  Where the hell are you going?  I have no problem telling these two douche tools  they're gonna have to sit on their pricks till we can find a better solution.  You don't understand. These guys are  Assholes? Yeah, I'm gonna tell them what's up.  That's what's up, girl. Hmm? Now, let's go.  So, none of those guys called you back? Not even Lattimer?  Pussies. I bet they didn't even bother to read the data dumps.  But you read them.  You know it took me eight years to rebuild my career  after our case was dismissed?  So,  as much as I think this company is evil incarnate,  and trust me, they are  You know, it's not worth it.  What would it take?  Hypothetically,  what do we need to prove our case?  Hypothetically, a reliable eye witness.  You know, if you miraculously find someone on the inside to flip,  someone who was there when the decision was made  to falsify chemical waste intel  So, unless you're Facebook friends  with one of those assholes  This hypothetical is just that.  Let's move on.  Where're you working these days?  You have a boyfriend?  How's your dad?  I work for a company that doesn't respect me,  my boyfriend recently cheated on me,  and my father is drowning in debt.  I'll see you next time. Okay.  Fluorescent lights are hell, no?  Was there a change in schedule?  I thought I had Spencer next.  These interviews, they're just a waste of your time.  I mean, you know our regulatory and IP issues inside out.  I was thinking we play hooky the rest of the day, hit the back nine.  Is that a Vacheron?  Patek Philippe Tourbillon.  A gift from the Prince of, uh  Oh, does it even matter?  No.  But I'm not blowing off my remaining interviews.  Look,  I know you think you were a shoo-in for CTO,  and you're pissed  Probably wishing I'd fall into the subway tracks.  So, how 'bout you cut the bullshit.  I'm afraid your paranoia has gotten the best of you,  but, nevertheless, please excuse me.  I'll leave you to review your notes before Spencer arrives.  Oh, and thank you for dinner.  The entire evening was enchanting,  the food, the wine  Your lovely Sharon.  Please tell her I say hello.  Did you enjoy the view?  What?  Did you think she wouldn't tell me?  I'm not sure what you're trying  You wanna watch me piss, too?  I've had several glasses of water.  Scott, a misunderstanding.  Happy to pull my dick out for you, if that's your thing,  watching the Knowles family urinate.  Hell,  I could fly my brother in from Miami.  He has a bladder of a small child.  You'd probably bust a nut watching him take a leak.  I'm not sure what she told you, but if I were you,  I would tell her to find more appropriate ways  of managing her imagination.  Tyrell,  I want you to accept a hard truth, right here, right now, in front of me.  You are not going to be CTO.  I want to see that look wash over your face.  It's the only way I know you'll stop playing these  silly, silly games.  Oh, I'm fully aware you're CTO, Scott.  I'm not sure what more I can offer you.  Wait.  Here.  I feel bad. After all, you got a child on the way,  you need all the help you can get.  In fact,  this would probably pay off the rest of your mortgage.  Aren't you still in that neat little two-bedroom in Chelsea?  There.  That's the look I was looking for.  I keep brute-force thinking, but it's not working.  I need help.  Elliot, you in there?  Shit. Why is she here?  Elliot!  Lemme in!  Elliot, you in there?  Little blonde bitty.  Elliot, hit the buzzer!  I know you're in there!  Go. Shut her up and get her the hell outta here.  Elliot. Buzzer. Now.  What about Darlene?  She stays with us. And we'll be watching you,  so don't bother trying any dumb shit, you dumb shit.  Fuck!  Do you understand why you're angry?  Because you know I'm right.  - Hey. - Hey.  I tried looking for you after Gideon's the other night,  where were you?  I had to think about things, you know?  We always knew what Evil Corp did.  We didn't have the proof,  but we knew.  We were right about it all along.  In fact, that news report,  it wasn't a confirmation,  it was a reminder  Of how angry I am.  You remember Nayar?  The lawyer on the case.  I went to her, Elliot.  Listen, Angela, now's not a  I have an idea that will change the world.  I know it sounds really stupid.  But,  I know how to do it.  I think it could actually work.  I can't tell you what it is, because  Evil Corp, Angela, Vera, his brother,  Darlene, Shayla,  - this is too much. - But I feel passionate about it, Elliot.  I should just tell her what she wants to hear.  Angela,  trust yourself.  You'll do what's right.  That's all I needed.  How's Shayla, by the way?  She's, uh  You know  Tell her I say, "Hi."  You have no time to pull off whatever it is you think you're doing.  What are you doing here? How did you know?  Darlene.  These guys aren't playing around, they will fucking kill you.  Now, wise up and let's go.  Darlene's in there. We can't leave.  Okay. Then we call the cops.  I mean there's no other choice here.  It's the only way out of this.  I can't call the cops. Shayla will die.  Oh, come on, she knew exactly what she was getting herself into.  You think his employees have a long life expectancy?  She was dead the minute she started working with that maniac.  Forget it, it's not happening.  This is a zero-sum game. Calculate all the outcomes.  If you don't pull off this ridiculous miracle,  and odds are you won't, you die and so does Shayla.  That much we know.  But assume for a second that you do pull this off,  bust Vera out of prison.  Who's to say he doesn't kill you, Shayla, Darlene?  It would be in his own best interest to do that.  Either way, you all end up dead.  It's the only way Vera wins.  Zero-sum, Elliot.  You're playing a game you already lost.  You know I'm right.  No, there's gotta be a way.  I can think of a way.  I get it, kiddo. You want to help people, watch over 'em.  Best thing you can do for Shayla, allow her to become a memory.  No.  True courage is about being honest with yourself,  especially when it's difficult.  There's no plan where both you and Shayla survive.  I can think of a way.  This new world that we are so close to creating will never be.  And that new world, that is success, fsociety is success.  Look at what you accomplished at Steel Mountain.  That got us nowhere.  You took them down. You won that battle.  This This is failure.  This is the old Elliot. The one who turns to morphine,  to drugs when he feels weak.  A coward, who can't face the truth,  even though it's staring him right in the face.  There's that sensation again.  Fight-or-flight.  Three lives at stake, including my own.  I, Elliot Alderson, am  What?  Tom Petty, Pink Floyd, Van Halen  What's up, man? You ain't got no Drake, no Pitbull,  no nothing? Like, what's up?  What the  What's up, Rain Man?  I'm ready to bust Vera out.  I can get into the network.  We need to go to the jail, now.  She stays here.  No, I'm not leaving you.  Don't worry, he's in no position to be giving out orders.  Let's go, girl.  Remember when the panic would set in and we had a solution?  To be honest, I miss that.  Life is so much easier when you're numb.  What's the plan, bitch boy?  First Shayla, now Darlene.  Yo, what the f Elliot, what are you doing?  Like a hard drive blasted by excessive voltage, my mind is frayed,  close to fried.  I can feel the static running through my brain.  Serotonin receptors working overtime.  I need more time.  Tonight, tonight, tonight.  More time, right now.  I'm working on our project as we speak,  so it's in your best interest to keep talking with me.  At the security desk, my cell phone's running  an undetectable, activated signal sniffer  that will locate any kind of wireless signal in sight.  By the time I leave this building,  I'll own its network.  Good on you. Brave.  But stupid.  You showed your face,  and then I skip out tonight  Who do you think they're gonna finger?  I'm opening every cell.  That way, they can't trace it back to you or me.  Yeah, bro,  that's what I'm talking about!  Woo!  I told you, didn't I?  The universe got big plans for us, bro.  Sit back down.  When you get out, I realize you're gonna have to split.  You won't be able to stay in the tri-state area.  Oh, I love this. Go on.  Wherever you go, you're gonna need funding to keep surviving.  Which means, your whole operation still needs to be making you money.  Come on, Elliot, give it to me!  I hacked Isaac's phone.  He had everything, your crew, shipments, the entire operation.  I took it all. I own your whole world.  I need your word, when this goes down,  Shayla and I go free.  You leave us alone. Forever.  If anyone tries to hurt us, if I even see one of your guys following me,  I leak everything.  You're saying this knowin'  You can kill me anytime? Yes.  Yes. That's why I coded the leak to auto-send every 24 hours  unless I continuously disable it.  No one else has access.  If anything happens to me, or Shayla,  your money gets deleted.  Time's up, Vera. Let's go.  Remember,  I'ma hug you.  So what's your deal?  I'm here to see Terry Colby.  Who is that? Another damn reporter?  No comment. Do you understand?  Do I know you?  Get the hell away from my home, get away from my home!  WPA2 WiFi. Shit.  Borderline unhackable. Getting that handshake could take days.  The noose is tightening.  The mobile feed on the cameras.  I don't need to hack WPA2  when there's dedicated 4G.  We're good, I can pull this off.  Get in. Let's go, girl.  Nah, just him.  - Yo, Isaac. What you doin'? - Nah, bro. It's, it's fine.  I just wanna have a private chat with him.  Come on, it's cool.  We don't have any time, man. I gotta get to work.  Get the fuck in the car!  Hey, man. Where you goin'? Don't be stupid.  All good, all good. We're just gonna have a talk.  Elliot, are you  Why are you doing this? I can free your brother.  I figured it out.  It just wasn't your day, bruh.  I hacked your whole operation. If you kill me, you  You don't get it. Like I said, it just wasn't your day.  Stop.  I suppose a bullet through the brain is peaceful in its own right.  You don't want me to free Vera.  That's why you don't care about the operation.  I'd pick better last words.  You're trying to kill him.  That's why Vera wants to leave tonight.  That's what's been bugging me about you.  You never wanted me to break him out.  Your best option for survival is to kill him in prison,  because if you don't, you're dead.  You're the reason Vera's locked up right now,  and he knows it.  Doesn't matter anyway.  Vera was just gloating about how he got in with the right crew,  how he got the jump on some men.  Uh, he's not worried, man, he's protected now.  Bullshit.  That leaves you with a zero-sum game.  If you don't get him out of jail, he'll have you killed for failing.  Only way this works in your favor is for you to kill him first.  And you can't do that with him inside anymore.  Shut up, motherfucker. Shut the fuck up!  Let me free him.  When I break Vera out tonight,  you do with your brother what you want.  That's the only outcome  where you got the possibility of living.  It's your best move.  What makes you think I still won't kill you afterwards?  I don't.  I'm just playin' my best move.  I need 30 to 40 seconds  with the patrol car's Bluetooth connection  to run the exploit on the PLC.  And then?  The plan executes at 9:49.  All the cell doors should open.  Hey. I wanted to ask you about something.  - Oh, yeah, what's that? - You.  Why don't you just admit you think about  Yeah, gimme a call, we'll grab a drink.  - Talk. Whatever. - All right.  Do you know a good spot nearby?  The exploit's on his laptop.  Now I need to force feed it into the jail's network.  Well, I like what I hear.  I paused the exploit. Drive.  Darlene's no longer part of the plan.  We got an alarm going on right now.  What in the hell?  Tell you what, we go out, we drink, we dance,  see where the night takes us.  You sure you wanna make that choice right now?  I only need to press one key to run the exploit,  or I can press another and disable the entire plan.  I made my move.  You make yours.  Shit. Please move back, miss.  I gotta get back ASAP.  Whatever.  Look, I I gotta come back down now.  My computer's on the fritz.  Let's go to the meet, DJ.  If I mis-typed one command, hit one wrong key,  the cell doors won't open.  And we both know what that means.  Did I make a mistake?  No.  I don't make mistakes.  One minute till Vera.  For all his insane, inhumane ideas,  he does understand the world,  the wild savagery of the world.  What you need your piece for, bro?  Boy Wonder says he's opening all the cells.  If some fool tries to rush us,  I wanna be ready.  Hey-o, what the shit?  Power surge. Caused by all cell doors opening at the same time.  What, what about security, sirens?  The jail's network will show all cells locked and closed.  Alarms are silent for two minutes.  Run, run, run!  Yes! Yes. This shit right here!  This shit tastes better than any pussy I ever had!  Whoo!  DJ, shoot the cocksucker.  My own brother.  That's what the universe asked of me.  To be my brother's keeper.  Like Cain after Abel,  I'll be a fugitive and wander on the earth.  A brave fugitive,  a brave wanderer.  Look how you helped me.  That's the kind of bravery I been talking about.  But, but now  Now, I want you to look at Isaac.  Look!  Dead proof.  My operation is over.  So go on, crash it, burn it to the ground.  Doesn't matter.  I'm gone.  A spirit.  One with all the heavens, all existence.  Shayla!  Where is she?  Keys, yo.  Told you you'd get her back, bro.  You just didn't realize  She was with you the whole time.  Happy New Year 2016 - New Year, New Color ;-)
1 So? What do we got?  Terry Colby was involved in the cover-up  of the Washington Township toxic waste scandal  What do we need to prove our case?  Someone who was there when the decision was made  to falsify chemical waste intel.  Get the hell away from my home, get away from my home!  Elliot, what is going on with you?  I cannot help you if you keep me in the dark.  We got problems.  The Dark Army is bailing.  It's not over.  We'll find a way. Just not tonight.  How do you not blow your brains out married to him?  You wanna watch me piss, too?  Scott, a misunderstanding.  Happy to pull my dick out for you.  Elliot.  Where is she?  Told you you'd get her back, bro.  Happy New Year 2016 - New Year, New Color ;-)  Shit.  Shit!  Open up!  I'm bleeding all over the hallway.  It's a life or death situation out here.  Look, I know you're in there. I just saw you go in.  Open up.  I'm lo  Well, are you just gonna stand there?  Get me a glass of water, dummy.  Can I use this? Thanks.  My niece gave him to me.  I haven't even named him yet.  God. Do you know the pressure of an ecstatic six-year-old?  I mean, I kill that thing and her whole world  collapses.  I like what you did with the place.  Hmm. Yeah, nice setup.  I still like mine better, though.  Yeah, let me know if you want a top-shelf hook-up.  Actually, now that I have you,  will you help me move a dresser,  Mr. Muscles?  Okay, come on. Just come on.  Man 'N' Van is getting way too legit.  It used to just be like drummers  with their moms' Honda Odysseys.  Now it's an actual company in Queens.  I mean, the guys  are literally men in vans.  I'd buy morphine from you  If you could also get me Suboxone.  Pictures of you, that I almost believe that.  Well, um, it's pretty much  impossible to get Suboxone.  My supplier doesn't have it.  I saw this song live once. It was so rad.  Don't you just love hearing your favorite songs in person,  like half-deaf from the speakers,  everyone going nuts around you?  No.  Direct. I respect that.  I just hate concerts.  Lots of people.  and I ran to your heart to be near  You don't like people, huh?  Not most of them, no.  Okay.  Well, so, by that rationale,  if you were to really like one person,  it would be, like, considered an aberration, or  an abnormality or  Special, even.  I guess.  Well, I aim for special,  so challenge accepted.  all your courage, to let it all go  I wish we already knew each other.  Would make this feel less awkward.  You really feel awkward right now?  Yeah.  Well, then, I wish we knew each other too then.  Remembering, you fallen into my arms  Oh, yikes. I'm, um, I'm late.  Meeting the girls for drinks.  Oh, um, I'm Shayla.  Elliot.  You were always so lost in the dark  You know, I do know of a guy who sells Suboxone.  He's supposed to be a fucking psychopath,  but if you want I can call him.  You might be worth a psychopath.  I don't know. Maybe.  Oh, and, keep the fish, you filthy animal.  Slip away quietly  Open my eyes  But I never see anything  If only I'd thought of the right words  I could have held on to your heart  Sorry I haven't talked to you in a while.  I mean, it's only been a month,  which I guess in the grand scheme of things isn't that long.  Isn't our life like a blip in the cosmic calendar or something?  So, that's Shayla.  A blip. Not even.  Here one blip, gone the next.  Makes me hate myself that I've already gotten used  to the idea of her not being here.  In a year, I'll maybe think about her every once in a while.  Then, she'll become an anecdote.  A thing to say. "I knew a girl that died."  With the added bonus of, "She died because of me."  Maybe I should hate myself.  Here are the last two forms.  She's getting rid of me  in case you're still trying to figure that out.  - Once I - Sign on the bottom.  Then I'll deliver it to the court.  And in two weeks' time, you'll receive an official release from the mandate.  That second form means  that we've been sitting in this room for a year.  Over 52 hours of Krista's voice bouncing around this room.  She thinks she's a wasted echo.  Maybe she is.  I wonder how much time I've spent not listening to her in here.  I'm worried about you, Elliot. I really want you to keep coming here.  We've got a lot more work to do.  She wants more from me, but she doesn't believe in me.  I tried because I believe some part inside of you  wants to do this right.  You? Are you on her side?  You should clean your sockets.  Sounds too good to be true, but I'll bite.  What's the ask?  Given my client has information that could help your client's case,  we want the meeting restricted to her, Colby, and myself.  And we want it conducted off-record.  Antara, come on.  My client won't accept your presence.  Our client pays for ours.  Then you're duty-bound to present him  with any legitimate offer of beneficial evidence.  Of course.  Give us something truly legitimate and beneficial.  You won't even tell us what the hell your client has.  Seth, we've been sitting on opposite sides of the negotiating table  for two decades.  I'm not some joker, come out of the woodwork,  trying to scam Colby for millions.  I'm giving him the only glimmer of hope he's had.  We'll pass along your offer. Thanks for your time.  Lloyd said you wanted to see me.  Uh  Look, I appreciate your commitment to this job.  I really do.  But I don't see how you've plowed through  these last few weeks. So  I want to offer you some time off.  Just some time to I don't need time off. I'm good.  Uh, one more thing.  Look  I'm so sorry she was taken away, Elliot,  but don't let her death close you off entirely.  Find someone you can be your honest self with.  Okay?  I remember when I was a kid, I got into web design  by ripping off sites I liked.  All you had to do was "view source" on your browser  and there it was, the code.  You could copy-paste it,  modify it a little,  put your name on it, and like that, it was your site.  View source.  What if we had that for people?  Would people really wanna see?  Find someone to be your honest self with?  Bullshit.  Really good advice. Thanks.  I quote, "The US contingent  "of the hacker group, fsociety, has remained quiet  "since the upheaval inflicted upon the world's largest multinational conglomerate.  "Secretary of Homeland Security Jeh Johnson  "released a statement today stating that  "These groups lack the resources and knowledge of the US cell  "to successfully mount an attack."  End quote.  Yeah, so?  You gotta get the Dark Army back.  Dude, I've been trying.  How many times do you want me to hack him?  Do you know how hard hacking a hacker is?  Cisco switches OSs like all the time  Darlene, we need one meeting.  Yeah, well, I've been using Cisco's handle  to send requests for the past month.  I got nothing.  He's slower than me, but not by much.  If we can talk to Whiterose directly  Whiterose? Whiterose? Really?  Okay, if If the guy even exists,  and that's a big if,  no way he's meeting you face-to-face.  For all we know, this dude's Whiterose.  Excuse me?  Are you Whiterose?  A likely story.  Besides, the tape backups  already shipped to all the new Steel Mountain facilities,  and we still haven't found a way around that.  I got a plan in motion.  And God's laughing.  This is all I have left of her.  I will miss her.  I need to wipe again.  So, if you scroll to the next page,  you'll see the summary of capital budgets for purchasing and operations.  We get it, the goddamn earning reports are gonna look good come Monday.  Our aim is to facilitate bill payment  and heighten financial security.  So, that's an extra 2%.  You know, if we hadn't turned our profits around, I was gonna leave.  No way.  Where? Don't tell me Apple.  Google.  Don't buy it.  I got a blowjob from the hiring executive  on the Googleplex volleyball court.  Oh, she was hot,  had a Marissa Mayer thing going on too.  Hot execs started as hot assistants  who fucked their way to the top  twice as fast as the rest of us.  You know something screwed up?  I heard that some assistants, they're going gay to  move up the ladder.  I'll do you one better.  There's a special handful  of pathetically desperate execs going cock jockey.  - No. Oh, my God. Mmm-hmm.  Hey, Dwight, I meant to ask,  how are your children?  Hell if I know. Sent 'em off to, uh, Lawrence.  I think Julia likes art.  Oh, well, can't win 'em all.  Lawrence?  You'll never be able to afford that tuition on unemployment.  - Sorry? - You're fired!  You two, as well.  I'm making sure you all receive the minimum severance packages.  Mr. Wellick, uh, I don't understand.  What did we do?  Nothing.  - And I've took - You said you would update me.  I needed to discuss our situation with the state's attorney.  Thanks for coming in, Roy.  Yeah.  I think you should have a seat.  Colby's lawyers called 30 minutes ago.  They wanted a promise of total immunity  before the meeting, which I obtained from the man you just met.  So, yes, Colby agreed.  With a caveat.  I can't be in the room. You have to go in alone.  Look, you made a ballsy move.  But you doing what you're about to do  Entering the home of a very powerful man  with a lot at stake and asking him for something,  that's always a dangerous proposition.  So, one last time  Are you sure you wanna do this?  Aw, shit, man.  I thought you was one of them high schoolers  stole my mom's chaise lounge.  As heartbreaking as it is to hear that,  you're gonna have to put that off.  We're getting everybody back together. Come on.  Aw, man. Not this time. I'm out.  You can't be out. We need you.  Look, man, I got a new set of people depending on me, okay?  Clients out the wazoo, so, you know  I mean good luck. And tell the kids I said hi.  What is this? What are you doing here?  Well, I figured out how to insert THC's  genetic information code into yeast cells.  Tripled my earning speed.  Plants need weeks to develop. Microbes need days.  So, what, you got a Bath & Body Works  bottling facility in your backyard?  Try it.  The THC level is borderline in that blend,  and the lavender doesn't mess with the high.  You just smooth it on your skin.  So, you're rejecting a revolution  in favor of aroma profiles?  What a waste of potential.  - Look, man, I know I got a good brain.  Besides  What was our little project in the end, anyway?  Wasted shit if you ask me.  Ah, now you're borderline pissing me off.  Is that a fact?  And what exactly are you gonna do  if I decide to cross that border?  Look at my face, Romero.  You and I both know I'm crazy.  Not the cute kind, either. I'm talking  Crazy, crazy!  You lost touch.  You forgot the feeling of spilling blood on the battlefield  but winning the fight.  I didn't wanna hurt you, Romero.  I love you, man.  I just wanted you to come back to the arcade with me  so we could change the world together.  I am clearly too crazy for you to say no to.  Bam!  The look on your face, priceless.  Goddamn lunatic.  You gave me your word when we started this thing that you'd finish it.  I gave you my word what I'd do if you didn't.  See you back at the arcade.  Good, I see the girl got you tea.  Well, let's get started.  How much do you want?  Write your number.  You can ask me anything you want,  but I promise you, at the end of the day,  money will always be better than what you're looking for.  Mr. Colby  Did you attend the executive board meetings during 1993?  Were you in the room  when the decision was made to ignore the treatment  of hazardous waste in Washington Township?  I have information which can help you,  if you answer my question.  I don't know what you're talking about.  If you agree to testify against the executives  who covered up the illegal  dumping of epoxy resin waste,  I will testify that  I broke chain of custody  with the .DAT file  central to your case.  You're that hot little thing that came by here a month ago.  The girl from Allsafe.  I remember. Yeah.  Okay  I'm gonna answer your question.  But here's what I need from you first.  So, I'm gonna pull down my pants.  And then, I'm gonna need you to take that pouty mouth of yours  and swallow up my balls.  Now  They're big and hairy, especially the left one,  so you're really gonna have to,  I don't know, squish 'em up to get 'em inside there.  You're probably gonna have to do one cheek at a time.  But then, once they're all warm and snug in there,  I want you to repeat your question to me  as clearly as you can.  Then, and only then,  am I willing to answer.  What do you say?  If you don't take this deal,  you'll become like me.  Sure, maybe you'll live in this house.  Maybe you'll have money.  But even if your expensive lawyers  find a way to get you off,  people will still think that you're guilty.  Losing everyone's respect  The respect of people you know  and the people you don't,  it's a shitty feeling  Trust me.  I'll have the girl let me out.  Flipper.  Is she microchipped?  Okay.  Very good.  Housekeeping done.  Now, on to the real business.  Has your dog ever eaten trash before?  No.  I mean, not Not that I remember.  Well, lucky for your bank account,  the piece is small enough to pass on its own.  Unfortunately, though, it's large enough  to send her puking all over your apartment.  So, I would crate her for a few days  and monitor her.  She won't know what you're doing is good for her.  You were right.  I was only trying to prove  Colby's lawyers just called. He wants to talk.  Get back there.  It's a little early in the morning to be nerding out,  don't you think?  How long?  - I knew if I asked you, they'd - How long?  A couple weeks.  And you had the balls to ask for Whiterose, with my shit.  It's like you wanna get us both killed.  What happened? He responded?  You know  You didn't have to make me look like a shitty foot soldier.  Nobody would ever even know that  You got rid of my box and found the IP.  Then you joined their channel with my handle.  We're so done.  I don't wanna see you again.  But you fools actually got your wish.  I don't know why, but the meeting's actually gonna be on.  I'd tell you to be careful,  but I know that's the last thing you're gonna be.  My lawyers are looking over the paperwork.  - Does that mean that - Exactly what I said.  I asked you back here to make sure that you can pull off your testimony.  To make sure that this chain of custody story of yours is straight.  I can't afford any trips.  I'm not going to trip.  So what  What's in this for you, anyway?  I know you hate me.  So, what, you're gonna just let me off scot-free?  What do you get out of this?  Earlier, I asked you a question.  You never answered it.  If I'm agreeing to testify in your case, then,  yes, you know, I attended several meetings.  Tell me about the one when they  decided to ignore the leak.  I'm I'm not sure what you're asking.  What was the meeting like when you decided this?  I get it.  You wanna know, like, what was it like?  Like, um, did we all have cigars  and laugh hysterically as we signed the evil documents?  Is that what you pictured?  Well, I'm sorry, hon, you see, the world doesn't work like that.  Tell me. Tell me how it works.  Uh, Jesus, um, all right.  All right. Let's see.  January, '93  Well, my secretary then was Elaine.  So, Elaine brought us a platter of shrimp cocktail  to tide us to dinner, which pissed us off.  Because we just had a platter at the holiday party.  Jim opened the bar.  Now Jim was a real piece of work.  I mean half-pansy, half-mafia.  First sign of a tight decision,  he'd be chain-smoking, down a river of scotch.  Uh  You know, it rained.  It rained. I remember that.  Yeah.  So  You were drunk,  eating shrimp cocktail,  and it was raining when you decided my mother would die?  That's why.  So, people like you won't keep sitting in rooms together.  Did any of it ever give you or anyone pause,  when you made those decisions?  Yeah.  Yeah.  Sure.  But, um  But then you go home. And, uh  And you have dinner, you know. And  And you wake up the next morning.  Here's to a man who has a bright future at our company.  A man you all know.  A man who's gonna change this company for the good.  A man smart enough to marry a woman every bit his equal.  Our new Chief Technology Officer,  Scott Knowles.  Thank you.  Thank you. Thank you, Phillip.  Welcome. Here we go. Thank you.  - It's great to be here. - And we're off. We're off.  - Thanks, Phillip. - You're very welcome.  - Congratulations. - Congratulations.  Yeah. Come and say hello.  - Congratulations, Scott. - Joseph. How are you?  Thank you.  Tyrell. Nice to see you.  Is it?  I hear you shared our moment with your husband.  Oh, come on, that was over a month ago.  Don't tell me you're still sore.  Hmm, I sense some defeat.  Well, I consider myself, at the very least, reprimanded.  How disappointing.  One tiny curveball and you gave up.  Miss?  Thank you.  I should have known that you were nothing more than a bold entrance.  Are you saying you don't crave a bold entrance?  Every time? Over and over.  Sustained.  Meet me tonight.  I'm a little busy.  Come to my office, now.  Are you really asking me that?  I don't recall phrasing it as a question, no.  Fine, then I just won't show up.  Then the roof.  Take the back stairwell.  The cameras have been out since March.  No one will know.  Well, you just made a long day longer.  I know that Allsafe will have to fire me.  But testifying was the right thing to do.  I have worked my ass off to take care of you.  And of every person in this company.  Do you know what that means?  You've been a great boss, Gideon.  Once this confession goes public,  no one will want to do business with us.  The company will go under.  I couldn't let Colby take the fall for something that I did.  Oh, come on. You and I both know you didn't break chain of custody.  I did, and I feel terrible  Angela! Please.  Stop lying.  You do this,  all these people go down.  All their families  that rely on what this company provides for them.  So, this is where the rabbit hole leads?  Gotta be honest, I half-expected you not to show up.  And I half-expected you to be a tattle-tale.  So you are sore.  Oh, come on, you intrigued me,  I intrigued back.  Can't we just be more straightforward?  Well, that's no fun, but if you insist  I just came up here to see if you were really as gullible as you seem.  My husband's downstairs getting the job that you want,  and you're up here trying fuck to me.  Now, whether that's you  being straightforward or a game,  either way, it's played pretty poorly, if you ask me.  Hmm. Again, I asked no question.  All I can tell you is, you need this.  'Cause you're dissatisfied.  Scott plans on firing you  and you are clinging on to any chance you can get.  You seem desperate.  I know it hurts  You know  I'd quench that thirst  I can treat you You say you're lonely  I say you'll think about it Hey.  Hey, what are you Get off me!  'Cause you're the only  Stop!  One who resonates  Flying like a screaming falcon  Only way to do each other  Pull out the incisor  Give me two weeks you won't recognize her  Mouth open you're high  Higher than a motherfucker  Dreamin' of you as high  We connected with Whiterose.  The plan is back on.  I could bullshit you.  Tell you you're the only person  who can fill the exact void we have at fsociety.  The truth is, I need this group back together.  Have you ever considered which part of our scheme motivates you?  When the Dark Army bailed,  you didn't care if pushing the button would bring an economic revolution.  You want momentary anarchy.  The others?  Mobley likes palling around.  Romero wants a whiff of fame.  Those reasons depress me.  What's the part you want?  You don't care.  My parents were born in Iran.  They came here like everybody else,  for freedom,  but my dad works 60-hour weeks  to determine tax loopholes  for a millionaire art dealer.  My mom, she ran up loans into five digits  to get an online degree.  They won't shut up about how great America is.  But they're gonna die in debt,  doing things they never wanted to do.  There are how many billion people in this world?  7.3.  Somehow you and I landed together,  doing something impossible if we were alone.  Not to mention, at the right point in history,  with the right resources.  We have what we've worked for,  right there for the taking.  We just need each other to see this through.  You come any closer, I'm calling the cops.  Hi, Operator?  I'd like to report an emergency.  I placed a malicious CD in my work computer,  and now this guy at the gym is saying hi to me.  I'm going home.  I need you to do something for me.  Call the girl who wants to be involved, okay?  Her name is Angela Moss.  - Let me give you her phone number - Listen, pussy.  If you don't do what I say,  then the giant shit storm that rains turds later  will leave a trail of clouds in the sky  spelling out your name.  Elliot.  I wasn't expecting you.  I'm here for my appointment.  Well, you can slip in before my first patient.  You told me I should tell you the truth.  Yes.  Everything I say will still be protected?  And confidential?  I've been lying to you.  I don't take my pills.  But you don't either.  Your refill frequency for Ativan  doesn't match your prescription divided by the dosage.  This morning,  you bought a tall hazelnut latte,  paid for it on your Evil Corp card.  And by text you justified the indulgence  to your sister because Evil Corp gives you double rewards.  But those points only accumulate on travel expenses.  You're not good with money.  On paper,  your Thursday 2:00, Marilyn O'Brien,  is your doppelganger.  I think  You're encouraging her to leave her husband  because you're tired of being dumped.  You like porn, especially anal.  Whether you like it yourself, I don't know.  That's not relevant to me.  You've told your best friend, Jennifer, that  you wish your mom would die.  I sometimes watch you on your webcam.  You cry sometimes,  just like me  because you're lonely.  I don’t just hack you, Krista.  I hack everyone.  My friends, co-workers.  But I've helped a lot of people.  I want  A way out of loneliness.  Just like you.  Is that what you wanted to hear?  Happy New Year 2016 - New Year, New Color ;-)
1 The redundant backups, their Eastern data center in China  The Dark Army is covering us on that.  We can go now.  If we move forward and they don't  China still holds all the redundant information.  It will be pointless.  If we can talk to Whiterose directly  No way he's meeting you face-to-face.  You fools actually got your wish.  I don't know why, but the meeting's actually gonna be on.  I'd tell you to be careful but I know that's the last thing you're gonna be.  I had the sys admin check that server again. Of course there was nothing.  I have no idea what there was to even be suspicious about.  Why do you have my work ID?  I placed a malicious CD in my work computer.  I need you to do something for me.  Our new Chief Technology Officer, Scott Knowles.  Meet me tonight on the roof.  The cameras have been out since March. No one will know.  Stop!  Happy New Year 2016 - New Year, New Color ;-)  What if this all went away?  The city. The money.  All Of it.  What? Like a zombie apocalypse or something?  More like a revolution.  Last time we hooked up, we agreed to check politics at the door.  There's no middle anymore. It's just rich and poor.  Okay. This shit is way too heavy for me this early.  I gotta go to work. Right.  Solving the world's problems one spreadsheet at a time.  Hey, it's either suits like me or the government.  And we all know how well they handle things.  Why can't the world just take care of itself?  Because the world is filled with stupid people.  And I get paid a lot to be smart.  Hey  There's not just the rich and the poor.  There's you in the middle somewhere, the consummate survivor.  I'm in a ballet class right now.  No, Ollie, I can't talk to you about this right now.  I don't care, Ollie.  I don't care who you ran into or what he said.  Sorry.  Tell me you're not getting back together with him.  Jesus, no. No. Just leftover work stuff.  Have you talked to Elliot?  Yesterday.  Seems like he's pulling himself together, but you know how he is.  Feels like I'm always worried about him, you know? Yeah.  - He's had a shitty month. - Or 20 years,  - take your pick. - Then, why are we the ones  that always end up so stressed?  Try waking up in your childhood bedroom,  then taking Jersey Transit for two hours  to make a 7:00 ballet class in the city.  Well, silver lining, you get to see moi.  All right, everyone. First position.  I hurt Krista. I don't feel good about that.  I hope you're not mad at me.  But you have to admit she's just like everyone else.  Too afraid to peek over their walls, for fear of what they might see.  Not me. That's what I do.  I look.  Did you get everybody back?  Tell him to follow the proper commands or the sequence won't initiate.  Using the back door, we planted with our Raspberry Pi.  Jesus Christ, man. How long have you been sitting on all this?  I installed a patch four weeks ago and I've been monitoring it daily.  No rest for the wicked.  I wanted to make sure it was all updated at the Steel Mountain locations  before the meeting with Whiterose. - Yeah.  These AirDream guys are so dumb.  Who has all their thermostats phone home to the same network?  I'll sync up all five locations so they heat at exactly the same rate.  No offense, but I'll handle that. You should take care of the alarms,  so there's no signal of the temp raise in any vaults.  No, reroute AirDream's traffic.  Make sure to erase any and all signs of our activity.  Where were you? - I need a word.  I gotta get to work. - Not sure that's wise.  What the hell is that? - They're following me.  And they're probably following you too.  They were on the subway. Okay, Cisco's warned me about them.  These guys are dangerous, Elliot.  The Whiterose meet might not go down the way we want it to.  Yeah, well, I don't even know how to use a gun.  Besides, I'm not even sure I'm the one they wanna meet with.  You're definitely the one they want to meet with.  And when you do, you need to be careful.  I'm serious, Elliot.  What are you doing? I'm calling myself from your phone,  that way we have each other's number.  Wait, Darlene. We don't do that.  That's to protect fsociety. Okay, but we need to protect each other right now.  Lose Darlene's number. It's a rule for a reason.  Don't worry, I'm not gonna use it.  She's right about one thing.  You're the one they wanna talk to.  We can't afford any distractions.  He's so obvious, why don't you just kill me now?  - Oh! - Jesus, Blake! Were you fucking tip-toeing?  God damn it, look what you've done.  Watch where you're going!  But you  - Good morning. - Not now, Elizabeth. Hold all calls.  Cancel any meetings. I'm busy today.  But, Mr. Wellick.  Gideon Goddard is here to see you.  I'm sorry. He was very persistent. He wouldn't leave.  Okay.  Okay. No, that's fine.  Thank you. Uh, do you want me to, uh  Oh, yes. I'd love some coffee.  One of my employees  confessed to breaking chain of custody  with the Colby .DAT file.  Unfortunately, this admission  will render the evidence inadmissible,  and Colby free of charges. Now before you say anything, I want to assure you  that Allsafe has doubled its efforts to find the hackers,  whether it be reconfirming Colby's involvement,  or finding the real perpetrators.  We've air gapped your private network,  implemented a honeypot, reconfigured all firewalls,  - and systematically - Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait.  A honeypot? For what?  Uh, a specific server involved in the last fsociety attack.  CS30.  I know we checked it out,  but if there's even a chance  the hackers are still in the network,  the honeypot will ensure  that they can't cause any damage.  They'll log into the decoy server we've set up thinking they're on your main network.  And I'm personally keeping tabs on all traffic.  So you have our full attention.  Well, I appreciate your transparency.  Well, so, you understand then?  Of course. Good.  In fact, I'd like to look over your findings,  especially this server.  So, please send me the research.  Of course. Of course. Yeah.  Well, thank you again for seeing me.  Mr. Wellick?  Mr. Wellick?  I specifically asked not to be disturbed.  I know, but, um  What is it?  The police.  It's awful.  - What about the police? - They found a body on the roof.  A body? Who?  They're not saying, but detectives came by. They want to speak with you.  With me?  They're questioning everyone who was at the reception last night.  Clearly this is tragic, but unfortunately work goes on.  But don't you think you should - Tell them,  they can set an appointment.  I'd be happy to speak with them then.  Oh, and Elizabeth,  I need you to connect me with the Dulles Server Farm.  I'll take it on my mobile.  And the file shares? 'Cause client data is inaccessible until we're back online.  Jumping on that now.  Check the logs on the ASA firewall.  I want a full report.  Ollie, sales.  All appointments at Allsafe  are canceled until further notice.  Word of this cannot get out.  All right, let's get to it.  This hack is far from devastating.  They already own us.  They're not going after anything valuable.  This is more of a distraction.  But what are they trying to distract us from?  Hey, bro.  Always the chatterbox.  You're sweating.  Oh. yeah?  Yeah, yeah, maybe a little.  Been running around.  Um, look, I sort of need you to handle something for me.  What've they got you doing here?  I'm trying to reverse engineer the malware.  Okay, um, I'm gonna need you to stop doing that  and take these corrupted drives over to  Blank's Disk Recovery on 36th and Fifth.  Why me? Get one of the IT guys.  Everyone is swamped, Elliot.  Dude, this isn't, like, a debate.  I've always wanted things to be cool between us, but  I outrank you.  So  Here are the drives.  Your appointment is at 2:00.  You cannot be late.  In fact, um, how about you leave right now?  It's only 12:00.  Elliot, bro.  Just, just do me this solid, okay?  He wasn't just stressed.  He was scared.  Let's see what he's hiding.  What does Angela have to do with this?  Well  Why didn't you tell me?  And say what?  "Hey, Elliot, there's a bunch of nude pics of me that some asshole wants to leak online?"  I could've helped. You weren't around.  Yeah.  I've kind of had a rough month.  I'm sorry.  Tell me what happened.  We were being pressured.  By who?  Some guy.  He gave Ollie a CD that infected his laptop,  stole his pictures, his emails, and browser cache.  He said to install the disk at Allsafe or he would leak everything online.  It was a while ago. I thought he forgot about us.  I was right, the hack was a distraction.  This is about me. This is the meeting.  You should've come to me.  I told you, you weren't there.  You're never there anymore.  Something is going on with you, Elliot.  You have not been the same the past couple of months,  and this happened before Shayla.  You're wrong. You're lying.  You don't talk to me anymore.  Just tell me what to do here,  because the only solution I can think of is to give up.  God, say something.  You're right.  We don't talk anymore.  It's so strange.  I really miss us.  Why is that strange?  Because I never thought I'd have to.  Hackers.  We inherently trust no one, including each other.  I'll never be able to tell her.  There will always be this divide,  my wall that she can't look over.  And she knows it.  Trust issues.  The Dark Army has taken extraordinary steps  to make sure this meeting is exactly how they want it.  Is that why the infamous Whiterose is such a legend?  Because he's more paranoid than the rest of us?  I'm Elliot Alderson.  A Faraday cage.  A room specifically designed to prevent electromagnetic interference.  No radio. No signal.  No Wi-Fi. Nothing to hack.  I think I'm here to see you.  Am I supposed to follow you?  Are you just going to stand there?  Or do you want to hand me those drives?  Mmm, mmm, mmm.  This meeting has started.  I manage my time very carefully, Mr. Alderson.  Each beep indicates one minute of my time that has passed.  I have allotted you no more than three minutes.  Are you really gonna do that?  I suggest you pick better topics of conversation.  I have 17 more items on my agenda today.  The Evil Corp hack. We should go through with it this time.  You are turning out to be a grave disappointment.  We were ready. We had everything set to go.  Dwelling is so inefficient.  Hey, you pulled out last time.  Wasting more time telling me things I already know, tsk, tsk, tsk.  But we were ready. That is the third time that you have expressed that.  She's trolling me.  You have not advanced this conversation.  Do you intend to? - Since last month,  Evil Corp has moved its tapes to - Five backup facilities,  and you have a plan to take them all down?  Yes. Finally, you have communicated something.  So are you ready to do this or not?  You are the one who is not ready.  It was you who failed all along.  What you lacked was focus.  You strayed from the hack to target Terry Colby.  This opened a vulnerability.  Suspicion. Specifically by Gideon Goddard.  That's why you hacked Allsafe.  To monitor his activities.  And that's when we discovered  that he turned your infected server  into a honeypot.  Oh, 60 seconds and this meeting will be over.  Wait. The concept of "waiting" bewilders me.  There are always deadlines, there are always ticking clocks.  That's why you must manage your time.  I'll find a way to remove the honeypot.  Until 16 seconds ago,  you were not aware there was a honeypot.  This does not inspire confidence. - Wait.  There's that word again. We'll take care of it.  You know, you could have told us about the honeypot weeks ago.  Every hacker has her fixation. You hack people, I hack time.  So you should know that when I set a timeline, there's a reason.  You have 50 hours and 23 minutes.  At that point when all parties are ready we will initiate the hack.  We'll do it.  - Maybe next time - Understand something, Mr. Alderson.  After I leave, you will never see me again.  There are very people in my life that I have enough time to see  more than once and you are not one of them.  Trust me.  That's not going to matter.  Why are you doing all of this?  The hack?  Why are you working with us?  50 hours and 20 minutes left.  I need to figure this out.  Gideon's been spying on me the whole time.  Honeypot service order. Shit.  I gotta do that now. Security token.  Gideon's phone. I need his phone.  50 hours and 19 minutes left.  Damn. She infected me with her time paranoia.  We're all living in each other's paranoia.  You definitely can't argue that.  Is that why everyone tries to avoid each other?  I need to calm down.  I wish I could be an observer like you.  Then I could think more calmly.  This is comfortable.  Less stressful.  In fact, I feel like I can see everything,  know everything this way.  Hmm  Do you know more than me?  That wouldn't be fair.  My imaginary friend knowing more than me.  So what would you do now?  We need a distraction to get Gideon's phone.  Darlene?  I need you to do something for me.  She can help.  My boss at Allsafe, Gideon.  Sometimes it's hard to listen to an explanation.  Even when it's from myself.  Especially when it's from myself.  It would be so much easier to only pay attention when I needed to.  Yeah. To just  Arrive at the conclusion.  Is that what you do?  One hundred large MMS files to Gideon's phone, drained it.  Corporate greed is a trickle-down desire  that reaches even the bottom of the food chain.  And for what? Wealth?  What the shit? - Power?  It's a pathetic fable and you,  Allsafe, are a defender of this pitiful avarice  Holy shit. Fsociety knows us.  But your sweet dream is over, and your nightmare is about to begin.  We are warned that those who are complicit  What the hell's happening now? those who aide the tyrant,  those who accept the tyranny,  have no place in the new order.  The distraction is momentary.  Hopefully all I need.  They will know our justice and we will show no mercy.  Gideon Goddard,  you are a lackey to your corporate overlords.  Someone shut this off.  Defending those that bleed the innocent.  Serving them. Slave to master.  It's ignoring the remote.  They hacked our Smart TV.  Congratulations, Mr. Goddard.  It's posting to our website. And YouTube.  You will soon be finished.  In 90 seconds this code will change.  If I don't log in with it on my computer before then,  I'll lose everything to time.  We are exposing your role to the world.  No, let it finish.  And the world is very angry.  Sixty seconds. Whiterose was right.  We run from one deadline to the next.  Where's Elliot?  What are you doing?  I was working on the local backups.  Why weren't you in there with us?  I was worried about the - It just doesn't add up.  All these events keep happening  around your appearance, your disappearance.  Gideon - Forget it.  I don't want to hear it.  Every member in this company  stood in there watching the single worst thing that's happened to Allsafe,  and where are you? At your cubicle?  Doing what?  Gideon, I hate to interrupt you, but - No, not now, Ollie.  Evil Corp's on the phone.  I'll be back. We're not finished here.  I know, you thought I didn't put the code in time,  but I had to hide it quickly before Gideon saw it.  Sorry.  Have I told you what I saw when I hacked Gideon?  When I peeked into his secrets?  I saw a good, honest man.  Gideon was wrong.  I am finished here.  I'm not good for him or this place.  He was only protecting his people.  But me?  I'm doing this to protect everyone.  It seems you've been very busy lately.  I have to know what you're planning.  We were meant to be allies.  We might just want the same thing.  And I need to be involved.  I'm pretty positive you're dead wrong about that, my friend.  I don't think there's anything we could possibly agree on.  I don't know what game you're playing,  but I suggest you cut the bullshit.  If there's nothing else, I think we're done here.  Aren't you forgetting that I know your dirty little secret?  There are people close to you that wouldn't be happy if they knew what I know.  We're both too smart to allow pettiness to dictate our actions.  We're better than that.  Weigh the pros and cons.  Do what you need to do,  but as soon as the tabulations are over with,  you'll know that telling anyone about that does neither one of us any good.  In fact, you'll realize that  the only thing to do in your position when it comes to me,  is nothing.  Good evening, Mr. Wellick.  I'm Detective Quattlander, this is Detective Jones.  As I know you're aware,  we were hoping to speak with you at your office today,  but your assistant said you're out.  What's this about?  We're investigating a murder that occurred  at your husband's place of employment, ma'am.  May we please come in?  A murder?  Ma'am, do you mind speaking in English, please?  I think this is inappropriate,  you coming to my house like this,  upsetting my wife.  - I will be in my office tomorrow. - Mr. Wellick,  as you can imagine, this is very time-sensitive.  We just need to ask you a few questions.  Actually, both of you,  since you were both in attendance at the reception last night.  Yeah, I can assure you,  we have no information whatsoever.  It'll only take a moment.  And you both did know the deceased, Sharon Knowles.  You did know her, yes?  Sharon Knowles?  That's terrible.  Um, yes, yes, we did know her.  Please, come in.  Have a seat. Can I get you anything? Coffee, tea?  Coffee would be great.  Tea, herbal if possible, please.  Mr. Wellick.  What time did you last see Sharon Knowles last night?  Mr. Wellick?  Are you okay?  Ahhh!  Joanna?  Uh, I think the baby's coming. We gotta get her to the hospital.  Okay?  How'd it go with the climate control hack?  Handled.  I happen to be really smart and good at things.  Not like you give a shit.  We should celebrate then.  In 43 hours,  exactly,  our server will no longer be a honeypot,  and that rootkit you wrote,  will take down Evil Corp.  We did it, Darlene.  It's gonna happen.  We're really doing this?  Whoo!  Oh, my God.  Be happy.  You did this.  You did it.  Just like that, Elliot, you're gonna change the world.  We did this.  I would love to take credit on this one.  But I can't.  No, really, this was you.  You are seriously  the best person I know, you know that?  I love you so much.  Oh, my God, Elliot! What the fuck?  I'm sorry. What the hell is wrong with you?  I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I thought  I just  I'm sorry.  Oh, my God, Elliot.  Did you forget again?  Did you forget who I am?  What do you mean?  Forget what?  Elliot, I need you to tell me who you think I am.  What are you talking about?  Tell me right now.  What are you saying?  Elliot  I mean of course I did Didn't forget.  You're Darlene.  You're Darlene.  Elliot.  You're Darlene.  I know.  I know what she's going to say.  I'm your - Sister.  You're my sister.  Darlene and I'd hide in movie theaters all day.  Darlene would sing, Frère Jacques.  She rode her scooter in front of our house.  I'm crazy. I'm crazy. I'm crazy. I'm crazy.  She tried to run away in the third grade.  How come I didn't remember that?  We slept in the same bed when our mom was mean to us.  Why did I forget? I remember her voice.  How could I forget?  I'm crazy. I'm crazy.  I'm crazy. I'm crazy. I'm crazy.  Are you freaking out?  Tell me the truth.  Were you in on this the whole time?  Were you?  Think, God damn it, think.  How can I just forget her like that?  A whole person, a relationship.  Is this amnesia? What else am I not remembering?  I'm crazy. I should have stayed on the meds.  I'm crazy. I'm out of my mind.  I knew it. I should have never created you,  I should have listened to Krista.  I avoid myself.  Why?  I'm afraid.  Okay.  Afraid of what?  Finding too much, too little, nothing at all?  Do I even exist?  See me.  Elliot Alderson.  I am here.  Now I'm gone.  We have to hack  Me.  Nothing.  No identity.  I'm a ghost.  Did I erase myself?  I think we should talk.  Happy New Year 2016 - New Year, New Color ;-)
Exciting time in the world right now.  Exciting time.  If you agree to testify,  I will testify that I broke chain of custody with the .DAT file.  We've implemented a honeypot, CS30.  I'd like to look over your findings,  especially this server.  Detectives came by. They wanna speak with you.  They found a body on the roof.  And you both did know the deceased, Sharon Knowles?  Sharon Knowles?  I think the baby's coming.  We got to get her to the hospital.  Tell me about your father.  I remember I tried to hug him, tell him I'm sorry,  and he shoved me so hard, I fell backwards out the window.  On, my God, Elliot!  Did you forget again?  Did you forget who I am?  I'm your - Sister.  I think we should talk.  It hasn't happened since 1904,  the year John McGraw decided to take his bat and ball and go home.  Here we are 90 years later and I wanna get your thoughts  on what it was like to be without the 1994 World Series.  That's right. The 1994 World Series is canceled.  Mr. Robot.  Um, well, I'd recommend the Pentium 90.  They're lightning fast, and we've got some in stock now.  With an 800 megabyte hard drive,  you'll be all set.  Or we could you save you a few bucks and upgrade what you have.  Once we swap out that motherboard and hard drive,  um, you'll be better than new.  Why don't you, uh, bring it on by and we'll, we'll take a look.  Okay. Thank you. Bye-bye.  What happened? That new mouse not work out for you?  Your son. He stole money from me.  Uh, excuse me?  Your son stole money from me!  I pulled out my wallet, I specifically remembered I had three 20s.  And now I only have one.  I used one to pay for the mouse, and then I had two left.  Your son was standing right behind me  when I had my money out on the counter.  I Just calm down.  I'm sure there's an explanation for this.  I don't want an explanation!  The only thing I want from you is my money and a fucking apology!  There's no need for that. I'm just trying to figure it out.  Can you tell how much of a shit I give about that?  Ugh I don't have time for this.  Are you giving me my money or not?  Look, do the right thing here, guy.  Then, no.  Excuse me?  The answer is no.  Are you You being serious right now?  I can't help you.  You're really just gonna sit there and lie?  I should call the cops!  What  What an example you're setting.  I, learned my money,  and you're just teaching him how to steal.  You're a terrible father.  I'm gonna have to ask you to leave.  You're a nobody.  You're a middle-aged man  doing what my retarded nephew could do.  That's your life.  You know what? Keep your 20.  I'll just go to Best Buy from now on.  God.  Come on out.  Dad, I didn't do it.  Let me see it.  Timecop or Stargate?  What? 20 bucks ought to cover the both of us.  Pulp Fiction? Never heard of it.  You sure I can take you to that?  All right, get your jacket.  What?  How come I'm not in trouble?  Even though what you did was wrong,  you're still a good kid.  And that guy was a prick.  Sometimes that matters more.  Come on. Let's go. It starts in 15 minutes,  and I wanna get some popcorn. Come on.  Happy New Year 2016 - New Year, New Color ;-)  It's really him.  It's really you.  I haven't been to your apartment before.  It's nice.  A little messy  but that's not earth-shattering news.  You never really did like cleaning your room.  Jesus fucking Christ.  I can't believe it's really you.  I was beginning to wonder how long it was gonna take  before you recognized me.  Now, the fact that you've stopped recognizing Darlene, too, well  I gotta be honest, that's a little disconcerting.  - Argh! -  Why didn't you say anything?  Why didn't you tell me?  Okay, Elliot. - This whole time!  Elliot. You are not well.  I was trying to handle it gently.  Gently?  Gently?  Gently?  Is that what the last three months have been?  No.  It's been about us doing something important.  And that's what it still needs to be about.  You died.  You died.  You were dead!  I suggest you lower your voice.  Lower my voice?  You want me to lower my voice  after appearing at my door  20 years after your supposed death.  I think this is  a perfect fucking volume!  Elliot, you don't want them to hear us.  Especially after my impromptu visit from Tyrell Wellick last night.  Elliot, there are people out there  who do not want us to work together.  Is that why they've been following me?  Is that why?  Because of you?  Think about it.  You don't remember me, you don't remember your own goddamn sister.  You see that shrink, pop their pills.  They intentionally put you in this haze,  fog up whatever brain matter you have left in there  so you forget what they want you to forget.  They're trying to control you, Elliot.  They've been trying to control you all along.  This is crazy.  I'm crazy.  I'm crazy. You're crazy. This is crazy.  What are you talking about?  Who's trying to control me?  The people out there who don't want me alive.  The people who are afraid of us.  We have to be more careful now, more than ever.  And Darlene?  She knew about this?  Elliot, I will explain everything,  but right now, tonight, we have to stick to the plan.  Are you kidding me?  You want me to put this on hold?  Are you out of your goddamn mind?  It's not safe to discuss this here.  I don't give a shit!  Tell me what the fuck is going on.  All right. Come on, let's go.  Where?  You want answers?  Stop asking questions and follow me.  Oh, that's sweet, I I can't.  You're going too fast.  Trust me, I don't think that's the problem.  Hey, I know you didn't want to talk last night.  No, Harry, I I can't right now, I have to  Breathe and have some breakfast in bed with me.  Okay.  How are you enjoying anything like that?  Hmm.  Mmm.  Honey, I appreciate it, I  God, if you only knew.  Tell me. I would love to know.  They hacked us. You know that, it's all over the news.  Now, normally, a company can get through this,  but we're a cyber security company.  Can you appreciate how bad that is?  We're hanging on by our fingernails.  Uh, who knows?  Maybe we've already fallen off a cliff  and I'm still trying to grasp onto something.  I'm a failure.  Look at me.  Look at this person who loves you so much  he would die a happy man right now just 'cause he had this.  Us, sitting down, having breakfast.  I don't think failing looks like this.  Hmm?  Make sure you go through all those emails again.  Everything from '91 to '95.  And let's start building a table that cross-references our calendar.  Yes.  Hey! Good to see you.  Uh, you should be proud.  News of Colby's confession is breaking today.  So far, we are firing on all cylinders.  So, what's up?  I came to help out.  Yeah. Can we scan these and, uh, email the PDFs to me.  And copy Roy on them.  Shouldn't you be at work?  I quit.  Angela.  You can't work here.  Why not?  I gave up everything for this case.  I don't want you to.  I am not here to help you find purpose in your life.  If you need something to do, take a jewelry class.  But you can't work here.  After what I did,  I won't be able to find another job in tech.  I'm broke.  The lawsuit money won't come in for years.  Which is why you need to find something you can get.  But this is not it.  Not at this level, for what we're trying to do.  Hello?  John. Yeah, yeah, yeah. No, tell me.  Um, four?  No, no, no, no. We're not We're not going down that road.  Absolutely not.  It's not happening.  No, it's gonna be six or nothing.  Who is this?  It's me. I'm looking for Elliot.  He's not at work.  I think he's flipping out again.  What do you mean?  He tried to kiss me last night.  You're the one that found him last time he was like this.  I really need your help.  Okay. Where are you?  He's not here.  Let's keep thinking, then.  I have been.  This was our runaway hideout.  He always came here.  Okay.  Let's spitball together.  I can't help you.  What does that mean?  It means  I don't really know Elliot anymore.  He has gone psycho legit this time, Angela.  We are in a state of 911.  We just need to talk to him.  Yeah, well, he doesn't wanna talk back.  And if he does, it's usually with a bunch of lies.  We can't keep protecting him from himself, Darlene.  He has saved our asses multiple times,  and you're just gonna do him like this?  Why do you even care?  What is that supposed to mean?  It means you guys were never that close.  In fact  He's been doing just fine until you moved back to the city.  Why are you even here?  Why have you and Elliot been spending so much time together?  Okay. You need to back off, babe.  He is my brother and I'm just trying to help.  That requires no explanation.  You don't wanna tell me what's really going on here, that's fine.  But then stop asking me for my help.  I think we're good.  You remember this?  Of course I do.  I think it's reasonable for me to confirm given your  I even remember my game.  I'd calculate the statistical probability  of safety for each car on the train  based on how often they would derail.  On the way there, I'd always pick the safest car  'cause I looked forward to our trips to the city so much.  Then, on the way back, I'd pick the most dangerous ones  because I hated going home.  She's not there anymore, Elliot.  Look, I don't know where we're going, but we need to find Darlene.  They may be after her. - Shh, Shh, Shh.  I thought that was you.  Oh my God, I haven't seen you in forever.  We can't see Darlene right now.  It's too risky.  I know you're confused, Elliot.  But I'm gonna show you. I'm gonna show you  exactly where I've been this whole time.  Look, calm down, I'll figure this out.  I know you don't trust me, I wouldn't either,  but I'm telling you, I'm remembering more and more now  as time goes on. That's a plus.  It's all starting to come back.  And once we get all the answers, I'll be back to normal.  Except for the fact that my dead father  isn't really dead and is sitting across from me.  I'm gonna step outside and give you guys a moment to yourselves.  We'll try feeding him again later, okay?  Okay.  We're not letting anybody through.  I I know the owner.  Freddie, are you okay? ls everyone okay? What the hell happened?  I'm still trying to figure that one out myself.  I was gone one day upstate.  They're saying it was electrical, but, who knows?  On hold with the insurance.  Cocksuckers are doing their typical dance.  Yeah, I was on hold.  No, wait. Not again.  I just came by to pick up some drives  one of my employees dropped off yesterday.  I'm sorry you wasted the trip.  Everything's gone.  Tyrell.  What was it? Boy?  Yeah.  Good.  Thank you for the flowers, sir.  If I'm being honest, uh, it was Anwar who sent the flowers.  He has a way with them.  Tyrell,  you don't know me to beat around the bush,  so I'll, I'll get right to it.  Uh, have a seat.  You understand the, uh,  delicate state we're in these days.  I'm sure you're aware, this This situation  with Sharon Knowles is  It's horrific.  Scott is understandably devastated by it.  My heart goes out to him.  But I don't know what I'd do if  Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I know. I know.  But the thing is, the  The police have indicated to Scott and to me  that you are a person of interest.  Yeah, their suspicions are  Are based on information Scott gave them  about advances you made on Sharon.  Look, Tyrell,  it was not lost on me that you and Scott  had your own competitive frictions.  Hell, the man nabbed CTO right out from under you.  I'm sure his distress is just causing him  to lash out and you're an easy target for him.  And, of, of course I doubt your involvement in this  This mishap, but, but, but  The problem remains.  Scott will continue here,  but you, I'm afraid, cannot.  I'm not sure what you're saying, Phillip.  You know exactly what I'm saying.  Phillip, you can't do this.  You can't do this.  You can't!  I've killed myself for this company!  I've been promoted faster than anyone else!  You know, I can't deny I tried picturing your reaction.  I seldom have time for such imaginings.  But, for you, I was curious,  and it It could have gone any number of ways.  And I found all the different versions quite interesting, I admit.  But, now,  confronted with the reality,  I have to say, I'm disappointed.  Phillip,  please don't do this.  I was on a track.  There was a moment, Tyrell.  A point in your recent past, a  A mistake, a compulsion, a decision, something  that led you to this point right now.  My only advice to you is find that moment  Understand it.  It's the only way to reconcile this, this failure with yourself.  Please, sir.  Don't do this.  I'm begging you.  I  I love this company.  Mr. Wellick, you can't keep ignoring us.  If you have any questions, contact my lawyer.  If you have evidence against me, charge me.  I know I brought you back to township,  but stopping by our old house is not part of the plan.  Come on, these people are gonna be home soon.  Not the best time for a B and E.  This is where it happened, isn't it?  What? Where what happened?  You remember anything about that window?  Come on, Elliot.  Like I said, we should go.  Elliot, what are you doing? Calm down  You pushed me out this window. - Elliot.  You pushed me off the boardwalk.  Elliot, come on. - No.  Maybe you're the one who needs some pushing now.  Calm down. It was an accident.  Bullshit! I was eight years old!  - No. And you thought I deserved it!  That's what you said, isn't it? - No. No.  No! No. Right before you pushed me again!  No, Elliot. You thought you deserved it.  You've felt guilty about this your whole life.  About telling people my secret.  This anger was never at me.  It was at you!  Please, Elliot.  You don't have to be angry at yourself anymore.  Just let it go.  Please. Let it go.  You're right.  I was angry. I was angry at myself.  I hated myself for doing what I did to you.  I'm ready to let go.  What?  Gonna work in the garden a little.  It'd be nice if you wanted to help.  Oh, by the way, you didn't tell me Darlene was back in town.  I haven't seen her back here in a while.  What did you say?  Darlene.  At least I think it was her.  You saw her? Where?  I'm telling you I did not get notification of the request.  That server needs to remain a honeypot off the network.  Sir, I have the request right here from yesterday.  I'm trying to tell you, Jim, our network was compromised yesterday.  I did not make the request, someone else obviously did.  So you need to take the server off the network or something's gonna happen.  I just can't do that, sir.  We have specific orders from Tyrell Wellick to keep the request as is.  That doesn't make any sense.  Look, I need to speak to your supervisor.  Hello?  Is anyone here?  Hello?  Jesus.  I ran out of places to look, so I figured I'd try the last place he'd ever be.  But struck out again.  God  I haven't been here in years.  The new family that just moved in is so weird.  Especially the dad.  They didn't really change much.  You okay?  Yeah.  Shit! Weird, new dad's back.  I'm sorry, by the way.  For what?  I should be more open with you.  You're family.  Okay, okay, don't get all mushy on me now.  Do you see that?  Wasn't that Elliot's room?  We're almost there  Almost there.  Why Why are we here?  I thought you said we were going somewhere safe.  Elliot!  Elliot!  Shit.  What the hell are they doing here?  It won't be long now.  I tried to protect you, son, but they caught up to us.  Elliot!  What are you talking about?  That's Darlene and Angela.  Trust me, son, I wanted to tell you sooner.  Things got too accelerated at the end there.  You have to believe that.  No matter what anyone tries to do, I will never leave you.  I will always be right here.  Do you understand that? They are not gonna break us apart again.  What's going on? Tell me right now! Listen to me.  Listen to me, because we don't have much time.  They're gonna try and get rid of me again,  and I need you to not let them.  Why would they get rid of you?  Please, Elliot. Listen to me.  I will never leave you.  I will never leave you alone again.  I love you, son.  What's he talking about?  What's he talk What's he talking about?  Hey, I wanna know.  I wanna know.  I wanna know!  Elliot, who are you talking to?  What do you mean? I'm talking to  Stay back. Stay back.  Elliot, you're bleeding.  Elliot.  Ah!  Elliot, what are you doing here?  You didn't see him?  Who?  - This can't be happening. - No.  This can't be happening. This can't be happening.  No.  This is happening, isn't it?  You knew all along, didn't you?  Huh?  Elliot,  who do you think you've been talking to?  You're gonna make me say it, aren't you?  I'm Mr. Robot.  You're gonna be okay.  I think I'm pretty fucking far from okay.  Don't take this the wrong way,  but I envy you.  I wish I could talk to my mom again.  Even if she isn't real.  Take care of yourself, okay?  I know you don't feel like talking about it.  You're right, I don't.  Unfortunately, I need to know, Elliot.  Given what we've been doing  I just need to know.  Do you remember any of it?  Remember what?  When we first started fsociety?  Uh, is Mr. Wellick in?  Oh, hi, Mr. Goddard.  No, he's gone.  He was, um He was let go today.  What?  Uh, why?  I don't know.  He wasn't always the easiest person to deal with.  I'm I'm sure.  Uh  Do you think you can get me in to see, uh, Scott Knowles?  It's urgent.  Oh, no.  Definitely not now.  You haven't heard?  Dad, what's going on?  I'll let you two talk.  I know, I know, but, hey,  you popped in over at my home.  I figured I'd, uh, return the favor.  What do you want?  To offer you something you may want.  Come on in.  If this is about the case  Please. I don't care about the case.  I don't even understand the case. I have lawyers for that.  Then what?  You boys can wait outside.  So, I gotta be honest,  I was impressed by you.  Sure, your career's finished, but you played a great short game.  You took a big gamble and you got what you wanted.  It was just, you know, the wrong thing to want.  What do you care?  You know, I looked into you over there at Allsafe.  I mean, lots of people would have settled into middle-management bliss  after all the shit you've taken. But you didn't.  You're relentless and smart.  And that combination is very valuable  to a lot of important people. People I know.  Where are you going with all of this?  I think I can land you a pretty lucrative gig.  A gig?  Where?  Your favorite place, where else?  You slummed it  all the way down to Jersey in person  to offer me a job at the company  I'm currently suing?  What's the real ask here?  I think you'd make a great businesswoman.  I'm afraid it's nothing more than that.  Is this a joke?  It's no joke. My pals think you can bring a lot to the table.  You can't be offering me a job there.  You're testifying against them.  So? You'll find this out fairly soon,  but, in business, grudges aren't really a thing.  It's too emotional.  It's because you pulled off, what you pulled off, that they called me.  This is a huge class-action lawsuit.  They're going to pay millions.  Roughly 75 to 100 million.  And that's what their lawyers will settle for.  After they exhaust most of your legal team's funds for the next seven years.  And, sure, that is That's a lot of money, but not to them, not really.  We started a rainy-day fund when the leak happened just for this occasion.  The fund itself has already made five times that amount.  I'd like to ask you to leave.  Shall I pass your name along to them?  I'm not working there.  They killed my mother.  And every fast food joint around the corner  delivers diabetes to millions of people.  Phillip Morris hands out lung cancer on the hour, every hour.  I mean, hell,  everyone's destroying the planet beyond the point of no return.  Are you really gonna start taking all of these things so personally?  Maybe I will.  Maybe someone has to.  A suggestion.  If you want to change things,  perhaps you should try from Within.  Because this is what happens from the outside.  These guys don't wait on anyone.  So you'll have to let 'em know by tomorrow.  I'll show myself out.  These are all empty.  Are you just filling them and dumping them?  Where are your new 'scrips?  What does it matter?  I don't even know what's real anymore.  Look  I know you feel shitty right now.  But once you take your meds  Maybe we should stop it, Darlene.  Stop what?  The plan.  The hack.  Everything. Maybe we shouldn't execute it.  What? Why?  The minute our infected server gets back on the main network, we're set.  It wasn't me.  The whole time.  Wasn't really me doing all of that.  Elliot.  The reasons we wanted to do this,  the reasons why we all wanted to do this, are real.  Maybe you don't realize this, but this was your idea.  You came up with this.  There is a part of you, somewhere deep down inside,  that knows this is the right thing to do.  I'm gonna get your meds.  We'll talk more when I get back, okay?  Come on.  What would you do if you were in my shoes?  I know, I know, I'm officially crazy  but the plan isn't.  Is it?  What the hell are you  Shh! Shh.  I've been waiting outside your apartment until she left.  I didn't want anyone to know I'm here.  I know you're behind it.  All of it.  Fsociety.  The server. Colby. Allsafe.  You're the one constant in a sea of variables.  Elliot?  Now,  I don't know what you're grand plan is,  but I need to, and you're going to tell me.  Two days ago, I strangled a woman to death.  Just with my hands.  It's a strange sensation.  Something so tremendous done by  something so simple.  The first 10 seconds were  Uncomfortable.  A feeling of limbo.  But then your muscles tense.  And she struggles and fights,  but it almost disappears in the background  along with everything else in the world.  In that moment, it's just you and absolute power.  Nothing else.  That moment stayed with me.  I thought I'd feel guilty for being a murderer.  But I don't.  I feel wonder.  How long has this been going on?  I don't know.  And what is it that you're doing, exactly?  Encrypting all the files.  All of Evil Corp's financial records  will be impossible to access.  The encryption key will self-delete  after the process completes.  - What about the backups? - I took care of that, too.  China and Steel Mountain.  Of course, even when we went redundant  I hacked the AirDream network.  I was in all of them.  You really thought of everything.  Who else was involved?  Just me.  Well, now it's you and me.  I've always told you we'd end up working together, Elliot.  But Still,  I have to know.  Why did you do it?  What did you hope to accomplish by doing all of this?  I don't know.  I wanted to save the world.  Happy New Year 2016 - New Year, New Color ;-)
1 Come on, will ya Will ya go?  Come on, go. Hey.  You cheated on your current wife with seven different women.  I got digital proof of all of it.  And if you don't stop seeing Krista your wife will know everything.  Done.  And one more thing. I'm gonna need something from you.  I don’t just hack you, Krista.  I hack everyone.  So I gotta be honest, I was impressed by you.  I think I can land you a pretty lucrative gig.  Who are you?  That'll come later.  Elliot, listen to me.  I will never leave you. I will never leave you alone again.  Who are you talking to?  Since last month,  Evil Corp has moved its tapes to  Five backup facilities. And you have a plan to take them all down.  Why are you working with us?  The hack, everything, maybe we shouldn't execute it.  Why?  The minute our infected server gets back on the main network, we're set.  Scott will continue here.  But you, I'm afraid, cannot.  What the hell are you - Shh.  I don't know what your grand plan is, but I need to, and you're going to tell me.  Why did you do it?  What did you hope to accomplish by doing all of this?  I wanted to save the world.  Hey.  So good to see you.  You look great.  Can I get you a drink?  Look, Michael, I don't  Jesus.  I forgot.  That's not even your real name.  Uh  It's, uh, Lenny.  Lenny.  Just tell me what's going on.  How advanced is it?  I already emailed my friend at Sloan Kettering.  And if it's as serious as you say  Krista, Krista  Then she wants to see  Look  I'm not dying.  You're a sick motherfucker!  Look, hold on.  Don't you ever call me again. Even when you are dying.  One of your patients hacked me.  Some kid His name's Elliot Alderson.  I went to the police already.  Please, sit back down.  We need to talk about this.  Here.  The police had their cybercrime division look into it.  They've been trying to track him down for the past six weeks.  What is this?  That proves it was him. He took my dog to the vet.  See, she was micro-chipped And I gave her chip number to all the vets in the city.  This sick fucker not only hacked me and ruined my life,  he stole my dog on top of it.  This guy's certifiable.  I mean, he's seeing you, so technically, he is.  What did he do to you exactly?  He made me,  you know,  say all those things to you.  This kid should not be allowed to do what he did.  He hacked into my private life.  And then those Ashley Madison dumps happened.  My wife found out about everything anyway.  After the whole thing, she left me.  I can't even see my little girl.  The divorce is Is a nightmare  I don't give a shit about your divorce.  If he's doing this to me, then he must be doing this to other people.  Think about it,  if he knew enough about me to hack me,  then that means he must've hacked you, too.  He did, didn't he?  I can't talk about this with you.  Hey! You have to help me catch him.  The dog thing alone isn't enough.  My buddy says this Computer Abuse and Fraud Act  is tough to prosecute.  You need a A lot of evidence.  All right, this kid is good, Krista.  He was routing through something called "proxies"  or something out in Estonia.  He's untraceable.  Short of that whole country falling apart,  we're never gonna get our hands on any real evidence.  And just what exactly do you think I can do?  Maybe he said something?  You know, in your sessions.  Oh. Come on, don't give me  that privileged information bullshit.  This guy's committing a crime, a serious one.  He deserves to go to jail.  If you know something,  if he said anything, you have to tell me.  Look, I'm not the enemy here,  he is.  We were a good thing.  Remember?  I mean,  don't you remember this place?  We had some good times here.  Come on,  don't stay mad at me.  I really loved you.  He never told me anything.  I can't help you.  The asshole stole my dog!  The response to the Japanese and Chinese  stock markets has provoked panic, setting off the downward trends  of the European stock exchange.  But, what's even more worrisome is that the IMF  has no leverage against these defaults.  Already, 17 governments are said to be in large-scale crisis,  with some on the verge of collapse.  Amongst the countries are Lithuania, Croatia, Ukraine,  Romania, the Czech Republic, and Estonia.  This faction has deemed the hack  This is a world destruction, Your life ain't nothing  The human race is becoming a disgrace  Countries are fighting with chemical warfare  Not giving a damn about the people who live there  Yes, the world is headed for destruction  Is it a nuclear war?  What are you asking for?  Happy New Year 2016 - New Year, New Color ;-)  This is a world destruction Your life  Who am I?  Excuse me?  I mean, where am I?  You've been parked in the lot for the past two days.  That's as much as you paid me before the credit card systems went down.  I'm gonna need some cash, man.  This is Tyrell's.  Why were we in there?  Aw, don't tell me you don't have any cash.  Huh, you're shit out of luck for a while, buddy.  I don't understand.  How long have you been asleep?  Seriously  What do you remember?  Wait I don't even trust you.  Hey!  Hey. Where are you going? What about your car?  Hey. I'm gonna tow your car tonight!  What took you so long?  I just had to shower and change.  You're still new here I wouldn't push it.  Jesus Christ, finally you're here. Where have you been?  Yeah, man! I mean, not cool, not cool at all.  I thought we were gonna execute together. I mean what is goin' on here?  He's just saying that we had planned on something  a little more ceremonial.  Ceremonial, man?  We been wiping drives, wrinkling cables,  pulling fiber chops in the adjunct vaults.  Everyone, lay off. I'm sure he had his reasons.  'Sides, whatever, the point is, it worked.  Jesus. What did I do?  We need to clean up and get the hell outta here.  Were you there? Did you see it? What did I do?  Elliot, what's going on?  You disappear on me at the apartment and come here  to execute without even telling me?  Execute. It executed?  But how? I What happened to Tyrell?  then you're gone for another three days.  Where have you been?  Are you saying it went through?  Like gangbusters.  Everyone's loving it.  People actually wanna join fsociety.  They're organizing protests all across the city.  Elliot!  What's going on?  Are you still seeing him?  No, but I need to.  Dude, you can’t just leave.  We're in wipe-down mode here and we need your help.  I told you we shouldn't have done this.  So, okay.  Your burn rate. That's rent and utilities alone  is 50,000 a month.  Your lease isn't up for another three months,  so we have to eat those costs no matter what.  So, that leaves us with staffing, operations,  outstanding loans, equipment rentals.  I'm just gonna call it, Gideon.  You have to shut down Allsafe.  Maybe I can just  buy some time.  We could bounce back from this.  Gideon, your number one client is in the middle of a major crisis.  You can't escape the fallout from this.  As your part-time CFO and your friend, I have to be honest and tell you,  this is beyond bleak.  When is it not?  I'm sorry?  Ever since I started this company  it's felt like we've just been  rearranging chairs on the goddamn Titanic.  When was the last time you and I have not had a depressing conversation?  Gideon, I handle the money. It's always gonna be a depressing conversation.  The best thing you can do for them is to let them know soon,  so they can find other jobs.  And  What?  All their 401k's were tied up in the market  which is expected to plummet once the bell rings.  Well, that's only rumors at this point.  What?  It seems to be a little more than rumors.  Every bank is essentially affected.  I know I couldn't use any of my credit cards over the weekend. Could you?  Oh, I don't know. There might be a silver lining to all this.  If what they're saying about these fsociety hackers is actually true  You'll now have no debt.  Why did Tyrell let this happen?  He was with me. I told him the whole plan.  He was gonna stop it.  A simple program A worm that can make data unreadable.  Malware that took Darlene maybe two hours to code.  Is that really all it takes to kill the world?  Shouldn't I be enjoying this?  Why am I even looking for Tyrell?  Isn't this what we wanted?  So this is what a revolution looks like.  People in expensive clothing running around?  Not how I pictured it.  I wonder what stage they're at.  Denial, muttering to themselves, "No, this can be fixed."  Maybe bargaining, forcing their techs to work overtime to try to decrypt our data.  Or have they come to the realization yet that Darlene encrypted everything  with 256-bit AES  and it would take an incomprehensible amount of time to crack.  Security breaches  That all of their data is actually gone,  for good.  No. I have to find him.  I have to know what happened.  Can I help you with something?  Yes. I'm looking for Tyrell Wellick.  He's not here.  He doesn't work here anymore.  Why are you here? What do you need to see him for?  And yes, confirmation coming in.  Fsociety's claiming responsibility for the hack.  We are cutting live to the video right now.  Evil Corp.  We have delivered on our promise as expected.  The people of the world  who have been enslaved by you have been freed.  Your financial data has been destroyed.  Any attempts to salvage it will be utterly futile.  Face it.  You have been owned!  We, at fsociety,  will smile as we watch you  and your dark soul die.  That means any money you owe these pigs  has been forgiven by us, your friends, at fsociety.  The market's opening bell this morning  will be the final death knell of Evil Corp.  We hope, as a new society rises from the ashes, that you will forge a better world.  A world that values a free people.  A world where greed is not encouraged.  A world that belongs to us again!  A world changed forever!  And while you do that,  remember to repeat these words. "We are fsociety.  "We are finally free!  "We are finally awake!"  Authorities have been trying to locate the whereabouts  of the mysterious masked man as well as other members of the fsociety collective.  The investigation is still underway.  The FBI cybercrime division is working  Where's my bag?  I need my bag. It It has all of my papers.  I put all of your talking points on these index cards  so that you wouldn't have  God damn it! Will you please just give me my bag, for Christ's sake!  I asked you to keep it close by!  I'm sorry, I didn't mean anything by it. I was just trying to  Never mind what you meant. Just do as I say.  I'm sorry.  I didn't mean to snap at you.  It's been a long day and I  I'm not used to all the young,  new faces around here.  No problem.  Four minutes, people! It's your last look. Let's go.  So, anyways, this should fry anything and everything to a crisp.  You're in luck, my boss is at the bank.  Seems like everybody's lining up this morning. So you got some time.  Jesus, are we really doing this right now?  Hey, I don't need no judgment. Not like I wanna be here either.  Sorry, dude, I got no sympathy.  You don't want to put cute puppies out of their misery, you don't have to.  It's just sick.  That ain't on me. I gotta pay the bills. Only reason why I'm here.  You know, I've run all the scenarios of our little revolution here,  but, uh, using a dead puppy oven was not on my list.  Teddy sniffing glue he was 12 years old  Fell from the roof on East Two-Nine  Cathy was 11 when she pulled the plug  On 26 reds and a bottle of wine  Bobby got leukemia, 14 years old  He looked like 65 when he died  He was a friend of mine  Those are people who died, died  Those are people who died, died  Those are people who died, died  Those are people who died, died  They were all my friends, they just died  G-berg and Georgie let their gimmicks go rotten,  So they died of hepatitis in upper Manhattan  Sly in Vietnam took a bullet in the head  Bobby OD'd on Drano on the night that he was wed  They were two more friends of mine  Two more friends that died  Those are people who died, died  They were all my friends, and they died  Mary took a dry dive from a hotel room  - Bobby hung himself from a cell in The Tombs,  Judy jumped in front of a subway train  Eddie got slit in the jugular vein  And, Eddie, I miss you more than all the others  Can I help you?  Yeah.  I'm looking for Tyrell Wellick.  Is he here?  No, he's not.  Do you know where he is?  Who are you?  Good question.  We work together.  He'll be home soon.  He just called me from the car 10 minutes ago,  stuck in some traffic.  You're welcome to wait inside if you want.  Whoa! Ah!  Shit.  Get up! Fsociety, bitch!  What did you say your name was?  Uh, I'm Ollie.  And what were you working on with my husband?  You've gotta help get me out of this.  There's something about her.  I feel like she can hear us.  He wanted my advice.  You know, about the hack that's going on right now.  When was the last time you saw him?  She's lying to me. He isn't coming.  She's fishing for something.  I'm not sure.  It was last week, I think.  Really?  You know, between you and me,  I'm a little concerned for Tyrell.  Was he acting strange when you saw him?  No.  That's funny.  Because he was acting very strange last I saw him.  Three days ago.  Didn't she say he just called?  And then he just vanished.  Excuse me?  I don't understand what you're saying.  Are you okay?  Yeah.  I think it's just the stress  from the past few days getting to me.  Anyway, I shouldn't take up any more of your time.  Thank you,  Ollie.  And, Sarah, we've had meetings all weekend handling the situation.  I'm being told by our network storage team that they are in fact  getting to the bottom of this.  Mr. Plouffe, have you seen the latest stock price?  It's hitting an all-time low of $18 and it's still dropping.  How are people reacting to this on the inside?  Almost $400 billion of wealth was lost today.  That's pretty astounding. Are you concerned?  That's an interesting question.  Right now, we are focused on tackling the technical issues at hand.  We have loyal customers who are suffering and our number one priority  is to address their needs.  We had one of our experts in here earlier today.  They're saying that if, in fact, fsociety's claims are true,  your data is inaccessible and could prove nearly impossible to recover.  And given that there does seem to be some legitimacy to this  The White House is with us on this.  They're gonna protect everyone's money.  The bottom line is, the public does not need to worry about this.  Mr. Plouffe, this was a massive attack.  All of your servers including your data center in China,  as well as your offline backups, have been destroyed.  I'm not really sure you can ask the public not to worry.  You want me to be honest?  - Of course. - You're right.  Absolutely right. The public should be worried.  I mean  Personally, my life is over.  My pension, savings, everything  has been in this company since I started here. And that's all gone now.  The truth is,  I've been with the engineering team all weekend.  No one knows how to fix it.  In fact, about the only thing we do know for certain is that  This will be impossible to fix.  Go take care of this.  Calm down, everyone.  Good. Thank you. Thanks.  I heard you were leaving for the day.  Um, Mr. Price  Did you need me to stay?  No. No, no. No. Sit. Sit.  I I know I'm the CEO of the company,  but what you went through,  it was traumatic.  I just felt I needed to make myself available.  You are absolutely free to To go home and, and recover.  Of course.  All right?  Uh  You're Terry's reference, right?  I rarely see him impressed with anyone, but you You, well  We're glad you're on the team.  And I look forward to you impressing me as well.  Yeah, I'm I'm holding a press conference this afternoon.  Since you're new to the PR department, I I think you should attend.  You might pick up some invaluable lessons.  Um  No.  No, I'm not sure that I can.  Well  The invitation is open  if you should change your mind.  Um  You need some new shoes.  Those won't do anymore.  Tyrell Wellick's gone, I wake up in his SUV, and the world's about to fall apart.  I know, I know this looks bad, but I'm sure there's an explanation.  Don't think that!  We'll find him, We'll find him.  He's gotta be somewhere.  My dad, Mr. Robot, whatever the hell he is,  if he's not gonna show up, maybe he got sloppy.  Left behind a clue.  All right. Come out!  Come out now!  Come on!  I need to know what happened!  Come on out!  I'm here!  I'm waiting for you!  Come on, man.  Come out!  Okay. We have to go analog for this.  We need to get these fliers out now  since we can't be sure anyone's Internet access will work.  Uh  What?  I'm thinking ahead.  First banking, then infrastructure. We've been through this.  Now, take these fliers, pass them out.  It's the last step and then we're clear.  You guys are acting like we're walking towards doomsday here.  Well, yeah, it does say here it's an "end of the world party."  Figure of speech.  You wonder why we're not in high spirits?  Maybe it's because our fearless leader goes and shoots up the world  and then disappears, yet again,  while we're here cleaning up after him.  He knows the password.  Which means I know the password.  What's he trying to say?  I'm on the hook for everything?  He won't come out to play if I ask,  so maybe I gotta force his hand.  I need to use the landline.  I need to get myself arrested.  911, what's your emergency?  I have a confession to make.  All right, you got me.  I'm afraid to ask.  Wait a minute, you said you work  Was this from the guy  The one they're talking about on the news?  Um  Yes.  You mean to tell me you witness this thing  And you're here to buy new shoes?  Wow.  That's pretty It's  It's just, pretty cold.  How can you work there?  That guy said it himself, they're just liars.  I know.  They are.  But,  I'm not sure that he knew what he was saying.  Oh, you sound just like them.  Have some moral fiber and leave their asses.  Their practices are well documented and it's all despicable.  Listen, this isn't my business, but don't drink their Kool-Aid.  Look, I just needed a job.  What kind of an excuse is that?  You don't understand.  You should hear yourself.  I don't know who you think you're talking to, but I'll try the Pradas next.  Calm down.  I'll get you a caramel latte. It's on me.  Where is he?  You know how this looks, right? Very weird.  I don't give a shit.  Where's Tyrell?  We made a deal that helped us both.  Tell me where he is!  You're starting to attract some attention.  I recommend you get one of those Bluetooth headsets.  That way people will just think you're the local douche.  Tyrell disappeared, no one knows where he is.  But you know.  So do you.  You forget, kiddo,  I am you.  No, you're not.  Is that a fact?  Hey, man.  I gotta tell you, I had sex with your mom this morning,  and it was fantastic.  Don't have time for you, little man.  Oh, it was real nice. Smell.  You're losing it, kiddo.  I'm only supposed to be your prophet.  You're supposed to be my God.  Come on.  The dramatic repercussions of the recent financial meltdown  are not relegated to developing nations.  The United States has also witnessed a disruption of order and peace.  While businesses determine how or whether they can function through the uncertainty,  individuals have taken to the streets  Oh.  Very nice.  I'm glad you reconsidered.  What What is it?  Come on  You have questions  I'm a person with a lot of answers. Especially right now.  Okay.  It's just that  Well, I can't help but wonder,  why do you seem so confident?  Everyone else is worried, but you  You're sure that you're gonna get through this.  - Why? - Hmm.  People did this, right?  Aliens didn't invade our planet.  Zeus didn't come out of the heavens to destroy us.  And zombies haven't risen from the dead.  No.  Whoever's behind this,  they're just people,  like you and me.  Except of course, I have the full weight of  the biggest conglomerate in the world behind me.  You'll come to realize that when you have that,  matters like this, they tend to crack  under that weight.  Can I ask another question?  All right. Go.  Why me?  Why am I really here?  I know you know who I am.  Why are you letting me be here?  Why are you even talking to me right now?  None of this makes any sense.  Well, be that as it may, I  I find you refreshing.  You're young, bold.  Exactly what we need right now.  - Come on. - What?  There has to be more to it than that.  Angela,  just a word of advice.  Don't talk your way out of a compliment.  Shall we?  Oh  You're still thinking about this morning.  I don't think I'll ever get that image out of my head.  Between you and me, I was glad he killed himself.  He was not a very good person.  He had a gambling problem. He drank too much. Most notably, he was weak.  His instincts left a lot to be desired.  Oh, I despise people like that.  In fact, I felt  the world was a little better off  knowing he wasn't in it anymore.  Uh, I believe even his family will benefit from this, in the long run.  Before we even begin,  let's have a moment of silence for our dear, brave friend  James Plouffe.  Hey, dirty, Baby I got your money  Hey, dirty, Baby I got your money  Don't you worry, Say, hey  Well, this place is a petri dish now.  Yup, I'd say we got enough fingerprints everywhere.  So that's it then, right?  "That's it?"  That's it?  How about, "That's amazing"?  How about we party and  thank ourselves for all the hard work we did?  Yeah, I don't think Trenton was talking about tonight.  Well, what then?  Well, you know, I I think she's saying, after tonight.  Right? Then what? I mean, what do we all do now?  Guys! This isn't about what we'll do tomorrow.  This is about what we did.  I mean, look at all these people.  They're free because of us.  Because of what we did in this room.  We are finally awake!  We are finally alive.  We are free. We are free. We are free. We are free. We are free.  I know you killed him.  I know you did it.  I know you did it. Just tell me what happened to Tyrell.  Shut up!  I have played nice for far too long.  I'm so sick of your whining.  It's not gonna change anything, anyway.  Please, you have to do something.  You have to help me, say something, make him tell me.  Stop talking to them.  They can't help us.  We have to do this together. Just us.  He's right, you know.  You're hurting the whole family, Elliot.  No, no.  This isn't my family. None of them are real.  Neither is whoever you're talking to.  You're not real.  You're not real.  And what? You are?  Is any of it real?  I mean, look at this!  Look at it!  A world built on fantasy.  Synthetic emotions in the form of pills.  Psychological warfare in the form of advertising.  Mind-altering chemicals in the form of food.  Brain-washing seminars in the form of media.  Controlled isolated bubbles in the form of social networks.  Real?  You wanna talk about reality?  We haven't lived in anything remotely close to it since the turn of the century.  We turned it off, took out the batteries,  snacked on a bag of GMOs while we  tossed the remnants in the ever-expanding dumpster of the human condition.  We live in branded houses,  trademarked by corporations built on  bipolar numbers jumping up and down on digital displays,  hypnotizing us into the biggest slumber mankind has ever seen.  You have to dig pretty deep, kiddo, before you can find anything real.  We live in a kingdom of bullshit!  A kingdom you've lived in for far too long.  So, don't tell me about not being real!  I'm no less real than the fucking beef patty in your Big Mac.  As far as you're concerned, Elliot, I am very real.  We are all together now, whether you like it or not.  Fsociety! Fsociety! Fsociety! Fsociety!  No.  No!  No!  I want to be alone.  I need to be alone.  No, you don't want that, remember?  Remember how you felt when you were alone?  You were in pain. You were miserable-That's why we're here.  On those lonely nights when you sat and cried in your apartment,  you begged us to help you. You asked us to come. You needed us to come.  No!  I want you to leave!  Leave!  We're deep down inside you, Elliot.  You can't leave us. And we can't leave you.  Even.  It's true, son.  I don't know what I'm supposed to do.  I'll tell you exactly what you're gonna do.  You're gonna start listening to us.  The world is a better place because of what we did, Elliot.  And you're gonna realize that one way or another.  Now, here's what I need you to do now.  You're going to walk to the subway.  You're going to get on your train.  You're going to get off at your stop.  You're going to go home.  You're gonna sit at your computer,  watch and enjoy the beautiful carnage that we've all created together.  As a new society rises from the ashes.  But you will forge a better world  Sound and color with me in my mind  Sound and color Try to keep myself awake  Sound and color This life ain't like a book  Sound and color Try to keep myself awake  Sound and color This life ain't like a book  Sound and color Try to keep myself awake  Sound and color This life ain't like a book  Sound and color I wanna touch a human being  Sound and color I want to go back to sleep  Sound and color Ain't life just awfully strange  Sound and color You wish you never gave it all away  Sound and color The more the feeling seem to end the same  Sound and color Life is  Sound and color  Sound and color  Sound and color  Sound and color  Sound and color  Go ahead. What's on your mind?  I know you're not without your troubles,  but we still haven't discussed the coltan mines.  Are you really bringing that up at a time like this?  You asked, I answered succinctly.  Well, perhaps I was too hasty.  I'd like, for the moment, to take in the music.  Besides, plenty of other items on our agenda The fucking Congo can wait.  Well, your troubles are weighing heavily on you.  I'm not entirely sure why.  I was told that you know the person responsible.  Yes, yes, of course we do.  And we will handle that person as we usually do.  You seem a little preoccupied yourself.  I don't believe in preoccupation.  It's more of an observation.  Which is?  The infamous emperor Nero played an instrument  very similar to the one she's playing.  The lyre.  Legend has it that he played it merrily as he watched  As he watched?  As he watched Rome burn.  Happy New Year 2016 - New Year, New Color ;-)
My fellow Americans,  no hacker should be able to shut down our networks  A massive attack.  Data is inaccessible.  Or invade the privacy of American families.  You're being watched and recorded.  I urge this Congress  to protect our children's information.  Dear brothers and sisters,  now is the time to open your eyes.  I started intercepting all the traffic on your network.  That's when I noticed something strange.  That's when I decided to hack you.  We are fsociety!  We are finally free!  We are on the verge  of taking down this virtual reality.  Exciting time in the world right now, exciting time.  So this is what a revolution looks like.  Why did you do it?  I wanted to save the world.  "Mr. Robot," USA's Golden Globe  and Peabody award-winning original drama  about a vigilante hacker with a mission to change the world  has engaged audiences like no other show.  "Mr. Robot" won two Golden Globes,  three Critics' Choice Awards,  but what really says something about "Mr. Robot" is  fans found this show even before the critics showed up,  even before the awards showed up.  Its realistic portrayal  of a world where information is vulnerable,  everyone is being watched, and anyone can be compromised  has fueled its rise as a cultural phenomenon.  "Mr. Robot" comes at a time  where you can't turn on the television  or read a newspaper without hearing  about some massive corporate or government hack.  But how much of the world  portrayed by "Mr. Robot" is possible?  A lot more than you might think.  Over the next hour, we'll examine  what's truly at risk in our technology-obsessed world.  The only completely secure computer  is a computer that no one can use.  We'll talk to the creator and cast  as well as pop culture experts  about why "Mr. Robot" has resonated so powerfully.  Something incredibly prophetic happened on the show,  almost, you know, weeks away from it happening in real life.  And through unprecedented access  to cybersecurity experts and real-life hackers,  we'll reveal how "Mr. Robot" is mirroring real-world scenarios  if not outright predicting them.  You look at the hacks that played out in season one  gaining access to Steel Mountain,  bumping next to someone  to steal and clone their proximity badge,  getting a backdoor in a phone  all of those are hacks that we read about in the news  every week now.  Plus, we'll also discuss  what's in store for season two.  The second season it's very different from season one.  This is "Mr. Robot dec0d3d."  And the Golden Globe goes to  "Mr. Robot." Yep.  "Mr. Robot" is the brainchild  of creator Sam Esmail.  "Mr. Robot" is about this sort of modern society  and the way we're so dependent on technology  just to even socialize,  so it's really about this guy who cannot connect,  and the only way he does so is by hacking people.  "Mr. Robot" tells the story of Elliot Alderson.  By night, he's a socially withdrawn  but gifted computer hacker who uses his skills  to expose the misdeeds of others.  Wait, hold on. I'll give you the money.  I'll pay you.  How much do you want? I'll pay you.  That's the part you were wrong about, Rohit.  I don't give a shit about money.  By day, he's a cybersecurity expert  who's been recruited by the mysterious Mr. Robot  to bring down the very corporation  he was hired to protect.  What if you could take down one conglomerate,  a conglomerate so deeply entrenched  in the world's economy that "too big to fail"  doesn't even come close to describing it?  Together, with the hacker group fsociety,  he succeeds in crippling the world's most powerful firm,  setting in motion a global crisis  beyond anyone's control.  Evil Corp, the people of the world  who have been enslaved by you have been freed.  Your financial data has been destroyed.  "Mr. Robot" features a stellar ensemble cast  led by the Critics' Choice Award winner for Best Actor,  Rami Malek.  Getting in Elliot's head, as odd as it seems,  is, you know, something I really enjoy,  you know, to go into his psychosis,  what he's suffering through,  the good in him, the bad, the ugly.  All of it is it's something that consumes me.  Christian Slater,  winner of the Golden Globe Award  for Best Supporting Actor, plays Mr. Robot.  The relationship between Mr. Robot and Elliot  you know, this character, Mr. Robot,  comes into his life and lures him into his world  to become part of this team of people  that are really looking to change society.  I tried to protect you, son, but they caught up to us.  What are you talking about?  That's Darlene and Angela.  Elliot, who are you talking to?  What do you mean? I'm talking to  This dark and edgy series,  with its cinematic style and unpredictable plotlines,  has struck a chord with viewers.  The world of hacking really  is sort of an obscure world to the general population,  so the fact that we broke out in any way like that  is incredibly shocking.  Kate Coyne, executive editor at "People,"  and Emily Yoshida,  entertainment editor at "The Verge,"  have closely followed "Mr. Robot's" rise  to prominence in pop culture.  I think "Mr. Robot" made such an impression  because of the timeliness.  It's inspired big debates  that went beyond the events of the show.  I think that's always the sign of a show  that is meaningful for the time in which it's being made.  The things that concern us,  the big ideas that concern us at any given era  I think "Mr. Robot" really taps into that.  This is very much a show that could only exist  in a post-WikiLeaks world.  You know, everybody, I think,  probably suspects that, on some level,  what they're doing is being watched or recorded.  When a cry goes up about the NSA  or about Edward Snowden or something,  a lot of people practically just shrug, like,  "Yeah, yeah, probably  you're probably listening to my cell calls."  That's crazy, but that's the state that we're in now.  Anybody can hack into anything.  His was the easiest to hack.  Password was 123456Seven.  I witnessed his first "I love you"  with Angela over Gchat.  Then I witnessed the first of many infidelities  with Stella B.  Everything about us is all digital.  It's all in a cloud.  Now you can go get somebody's social security, fingerprints,  images, everything.  You can literally take over their entire life.  That's frightening.  It's not like they're talking about it  in science-fiction terms.  What they're tackling is something  that's actually currently, right now happening.  Coming up on "Mr. Robot dec0d3d,"  we'll take a deeper look at the rise of hacking culture  There's always been a little bit  of wish fulfillment to hacker stories  in that they are the sort of modern superheroes.  And learn how a Hollywood movie  alerted a president to the dangers of cybersecurity.  Plus, we'll also discuss  what's in store for season two.  But first, a word from our corporate overlords!  Come on, kid. We got big things in store.  Big things.  "Mr. Robot's" authentic portrayal  of computer hacking has alerted us  to the real-world dangers we all face.  Now we'll find out just how much we're at risk.  This is "Mr. Robot dec0d3d."  How about Global Thermonuclear War?  In 1983, the movie "WarGames"  forever changed the way we would look at hacking.  Ronald Reagan was apparently shown the movie "WarGames,"  and he commissioned, you know, a study as to:  Is this actually possible?  And everybody was expecting the answer was,  "No, you can't start, you know, a global thermonuclear war  "just by dialing up, you know, a computer accidentally  and getting it to talk to you."  And unfortunately, the answer came back going,  "Well, um, this is a little more possible than we thought."  "WarGames" also spawned  a whole new generation of hackers.  I mean, I remember being a kid and watching Matthew Broderick  do all that and going, "That's really cool.  That's really awesome," you know?  And, by the way, he saved the world.  It's the first time that you saw Hollywood trying to depict  what people could do with computers  that went beyond just playing games and sending emails  and got me even more excited in computers and computer hacking.  What is hacking? Who hacks?  How and why is it executed?  To get the answers, we went to world-renowned specialists  in the field of cybersecurity  and to the foremost experts on the subject,  the hackers themselves.  Everybody has a different answer  on what a hacker is or what is a hack, but for me,  it comes down to making technology do stuff  it was never meant to do.  The show "Mr. Robot" I'm particular fond of  because they point out how, oftentimes,  it's very simplistic, the hacking mechanism.  Sometimes it's having physical access,  so you can swap a SIM out in a phone.  Other times, it's social engineering.  It's not that they cracked some code or some encryption.  It's that they sent an email,  and they misrepresented who they were, they  and got you to click on an attachment  and run the code for them  or that they called up on the phone  and pretended that they were, you know, a technical person  to get you to give information.  Hello?  Hi, this is Sam from Bank of E security fraud department.  Unfortunately, I have to inform you  that your account's been compromised.  What? What happened?  First, before I can answer any questions,  I need to verify some information.  Are you still at 306 Hawthorne Avenue?  Yes, apartment 2C.  Great, and your security question,  favorite baseball team.  Um, Yankees.  I don't remember this being a security question.  And lastly, your pet's name.  Um, Flipper. Uh, who am I speaking to?  Can I get your name and numb  With those details plus a dictionary brute-force attack,  it'll take my program maybe two minutes  to crack his password.  The last five, ten years,  hacking has become like a new superpower  that hasn't been invented,  and because of everyone's reliance on technology  and all your personal information being online,  this power just sort of came about.  Hacking her was simple.  Her password: Dylan 2791.  Favorite artist  and the year in which she was born, backwards.  People are horrible at being sources of randomness,  so, you know, somebody might think,  "Oh, I used my dog's name, my baby's name,  and the birth and the birth date."  That's a horrible password.  It might seem complicated to you,  but we know how you think because you're a human,  and humans are predictable.  This doesn't make sense.  Did he know I was gonna hack him?  Did he let me?  I'm gonna need to wipe everything.  "Hackers," you know, it used to be a nasty word.  It was, like, synonymous with "criminal,"  but now they're part of the system.  But not all hackers are cut from the same cloth.  So a white hat hacker is one  who would be hired by a corporation  to hack their systems  for the sole purpose of finding the flaws,  whereas black hat there's no permission whatsoever,  and it's usually for malicious purposes.  And then there's the middle ground,  which is grey hat.  Hello, Evil Corp. We are fsociety.  Over the years, we've been watching you:  your financial abuse of the poor,  your corruption of governments,  your cover-ups of the murder of innocent ordinary citizens  all for the sake of profit.  This is why we at fsociety have decided you must die.  I would characterize the members of fsociety  as probably falling into that grey area  because, while their intentions are good,  they are doing highly illegal things.  The entire company's gonna be reeling  from all the data dumps we've got in store for them,  and, man, do we have some goodies.  Some good old-fashioned executive racism,  sexism, fascism.  Trust me we are gonna "ism" so much all over them,  they won't be able to see straight.  Unlike their motives,  there are many psychological traits that hackers share.  Elliot, he's probably depicted more accurate  than I've seen in a long time,  not just for the technical capabilities  and how it is but the actual, like, psychological profile.  He's got that young hacker vibe.  And then his involvement in how he feels about society  and that counter culture I think is very accurate.  I hate when I can't hold in my loneliness.  This crying's been happening too often,  every other week now.  What do normal people do when they get this sad?  He's such a complicated character.  He's full of contradictions.  He hates what society has become,  but he also wants to save it.  He looks down on the people that he cares about,  but then he also protects them.  His abandonment issues are actually something  that I believe personally and I've seen in my work.  I think it is a big motivator on why people get into hacking.  Elliot's, you know, trapped in a bubble.  He's very lonely. He doesn't know how  to connect with people, so he hacks into their lives.  I think all of us to a certain degree  can connect with that type of loneliness,  and the need to maybe not be so robotic  and have more of a human connection with one another.  I like you, bro,  and I want you to like me too.  Am I crazy not to like this guy?  Amongst some of his Facebook likes  are George W. Bush's "Decision Points,"  "Transformers 2: Revenge of the Fallen,"  and the music of Josh Groban.  Must I really justify myself any further?  When you're socially awkward,  or you're worried about people judging you,  you have all these anxieties that just aren't there  when you're in front of a computer.  It's a lot harder to talk to people  than it is to deal with a piece of software.  But when hackers do come together  and groups are formed, leaders emerge.  You want to talk about reality?  We haven't lived in anything remotely close to it  since the turn of the century.  We turned it off, took out the batteries,  snacked on a bag of GMOs while we tossed the remnants  in the ever-expanding dumpster of the human condition.  We live in branded houses, trademarked by corporations,  built on bipolar numbers.  In every hacker group there's this leader that,  online they're quiet,  they're hidden in the background,  but when you meet them they're actually really extroverted  and, like, passionate and principled.  I didn't want to hurt you, Romero.  I just wanted you to come back to the arcade with me  so we could change the world together.  It is this instigator mentality  that forms the basis of Mr. Robot's character.  Do I think Elliot needs Mr. Robot?  I think he's a vital element to Elliot's survival.  He is that darker side that will sometimes do things  that Elliot otherwise would be incapable of doing.  Coming up, we'll explore the eerie ways  "Mr. Robot" parallels the real world.  The Sony hack got a lot of notoriety.  The Ashley Madison hack got a lot of notoriety.  Our show is getting a lot of notoriety  because of the real world connections.  Plus, we'll also discuss  what's in store for season two.  We kind of, like, press the gas pedal down really hard.  Gotten to know my stunt double more this season,  so that might say something.  This is "Mr. Robot dec0d3d."  "Mr. Robot's" authentic portrayal  of computer hacking has alerted us  to the real-world dangers we all face.  Now we'll find out just how much we're at risk.  This is "Mr. Robot dec0d3d."  This kid should not be allowed to do what he did.  He hacked into my private life.  And then those Ashley Madison dumps happened.  My wife found out about everything anyway.  She left me.  In a year in which we've seen  a record number of cyber attacks,  "Mr. Robot's" timeliness is almost uncanny.  I don't know that a TV show  can necessarily predict the future,  but certainly, they can hold a mirror up  to the direction in which we're headed.  And while some storylines  are ripped from the headlines,  other times, "Mr. Robot" was there first.  There were two instances on "Mr. Robot"  where something incredibly prophetic happened on the show  weeks away from it happening in real life.  The Ashley Madison hacks were one.  You know, one of the escorts was 15.  And then the other one was the shooting of the news anchor  in Virginia that happened so close to a similar event  happening on "Mr. Robot"  that the finale had to be delayed a week  just out of sensitivity.  These aren't just isolated incidences  that exist in a bubble.  These are things that are symptoms of larger things  going on in our society.  Colby either used hacking groups  or worked in conjunction with them.  I think a lot of "Mr. Robot" and the hacks in it  kind of reflect reality.  It's happening, it's happening,  it's happening, it's happening.  The hacks that are happening every week in the real world  are stranger than fiction almost.  Power plants hacked,  a movie not released because North Korea was upset,  some of the biggest retailers in the world  lose millions and millions worth of credit cards or data,  hospitals shut down because all their files got encrypted  by someone trying to get ransom out of them.  These all sound like the storylines  of a TV show about hacking,  but it's actually happening now.  "Secretary of Homeland Security Jeh Johnson  "released a statement today stating that these groups  "lack the resources and knowledge of the USL  to successfully mount an attack," end quote.  There are some brilliant people out there,  both on the offense and defensive side of things  that can do amazing things with computers.  You got this, you got this, you got this.  And it's both inspiring and kind of scary  sometimes to see that.  I, uh I have to go. I'm sorry.  I need to go to my office.  What'd you do?  I spoofed a text  from her husband.  So, yeah, probably the most alarming hack we've seen  was the Sony hack where not only, you know,  all of these email archives were compromised,  but also it was released on a schedule of,  you know, every week we're gonna have another one of these,  until you meet with our demands.  Another parallel between "Mr. Robot"  and the real world can be seen in fsociety's threatened use  of a data dump, a scenario inspired by the Sony hack.  They hit the mother lode during the breach,  potentially terabytes worth of email and files.  They're threatening to dump everything.  They released the video this morning.  Meet our demands and we will consider not destroying you.  Consider yourself warned.  This is, you know, a way to hold power accountable.  It can also be used to harass and to silence  and really as an instrument of fear.  In an age where everyone is connected,  and privacy is becoming harder to protect,  "Mr. Robot" has shined a light on the risks and the realities  we all face every day.  The writers have tapped into the paranoia  that we all now feel,  that all of our information is just ripe for the taking.  He got into my system, and he wants me to the put the CD  on one of the computers at work.  Why does he want to do that?  I don't know, Stella.  He didn't give me a full explanation.  So he's got naked pics of me?  Is that the only thing you're seriously  taking away from this conversation?  Hey, babe.  "Mr. Robot" is absolutely showing everyone  that we are living in a society right now  in which secrets just don't exist.  You maybe can't trust many people at all.  I know she went through a divorce four years ago.  I know she was devastated by it  and has been dating losers on eHarmony ever since.  The more accessible we make ourselves,  the more people are probably going to be able  to take advantage of that.  By the end of watching season one of "Mr. Robot,"  anyone who previously just typed away on a computer,  you're probably going about those transactions now  with just a little more caution,  a little bit more of a realization  that that little lock symbol doesn't mean a whole lot.  Our personal information, our very identity,  is accessible to anyone, any time,  and we look to the government to protect us  from criminal activity,  but a recent case between Apple and the FBI,  who are trying to unlock a terrorist's cell phone,  brings up a gray area.  Should the government be given access  to your personal devices?  Telecommunications companies have been cooperating  with law enforcement and intelligence agencies  for nearly a century.  And so you have the FBI saying  "Oh, we can't hack into your iPhone.  We need your help in doing it."  And Apple is saying, "Our stuff is so secure,  it's a danger to everybody if we help you out on this."  NSA and the intelligence community in general  is focused on getting intelligence wherever it can,  by any means possible, so while they may be intending  to target someone associated with a foreign government,  or someone that they suspect of terrorism,  they're collecting your communications to do so.  You would ask any person on the street,  "Should the government be able to hack into a phone  to investigate a terrorism suspect?"  and everybody would say yes.  And then, you ask them, "Well, should they be able  to hack into your phone?" and everybody would say no.  We have to look really, really hard  at the kind of slippery slopes that we're building,  as far as how much access the government  or any other corporation has into our data.  Any analyst at any time can target anyone,  from you or your accountant to a federal judge  to even the president, if I had a personal email.  Ben Franklin said it best: "Those who give up liberty  for security will have neither."  : Coming up: from the tech to the techniques,  see how "Mr. Robot" is as real as it gets.  Every single hack that we show on the show is possible.  Plus, we'll show you what's in store for season two.  Our infinite loop of insanity.  This is "Mr. Robot dec0d3d."  "Mr. Robot's" authentic portrayal  of computer hacking has alerted us to the real-world dangers we all face.  Now we'll find out just how much we're at risk.  This is "Mr. Robot dec0d3d."  Maybe we should consider rehab.  I'm not a junkie.  Then you'll need to prove it to me.  Submit to a bi-monthly drug test, voluntarily.  That's the only way that I'll recommend your release.  This is William Highsmith.  He's not only the head of the IT department here,  he's also an idiot.  He uses useless virus scans, dated servers,  and security software that runs on Windows 98.  One of the reasons why I made this place  my primary care facility.  I can make my health records look like  every other obedient zombie out there.  "Mr. Robot's" popularity  with many of its most fervent fans  can largely be attributed to its realistic portrayal  of computer technology.  That's the purview of technical consultant Kor Adana.  I'm involved in every aspect  of all the tech that you see on the show.  I'm involved in pitching the ideas of the hacks  that we see fsociety being a part of.  It's not your typical tech consulting gig.  Too many movies or TV shows  try to make hacking just magic,  and they don't explain it.  It's just something that you can't understand,  and because of that, it's some superpower.  I think one of the greatest compliments we can get  is just how realistic and authentic the show actually  portrays what's really going on out there.  One of the things that's so great about the show  is that you'll actually learn a few things.  This is bad, worst DDoS attack I've ever seen.  DDoS attacks are a bunch of hackers getting together  to overload a system to take it down for, you know,  a temporary amount of time.  It's a flood of traffic.  We're sending signals over wires,  and if you have too many signals at the same time,  the real signal can't get through.  Tried to reboot the servers, but they're not coming back up.  Dude, someone is straight up finger blasting  their entire network right now.  I've learned quite a bit, maybe too much.  It's kind of scary, mm, what I'm capable of these days.  For the creators and fans alike,  there's an appreciation that the realism  lies in the details.  People are screen-capturing the images  on the computer screens,  and looking at them to see if they're real.  And they are real, and that takes a lot of time.  One screenshot that was shown, I think,  for less than a second took somebody over ten hours of work  to make that an authentic load-up sequence.  All of the screens are designed, essentially, by me,  and I work with animators to achieve those  and make sure that they're technically accurate.  I think details like that  really enriches and deepens the world.  It makes the show this almost alternate reality  that's not too detached from our own.  More than just imagery,  "Mr. Robot's" realism extends to the schemes and methods  that are currently in use by the hacking community.  Their ability to infiltrate and alter a physical environment  was illustrated by the Steel Mountain hack,  a scenario that closely paralleled  one of history's most famous cyber attacks, Stuxnet.  The US and Israel had a joint operation  where they created an amazingly complex program  that hacked into the computers  controlling the speed with which  centrifuges were spinning in the plant in Iran  that was enriching uranium.  And about half of Iran's centrifuges were destroyed.  It probably slowed down their nuclear program by three years.  To think about the steps that are required  to plan that and then causing kinetic damage,  is incredible.  He wants to hack Steel Mountain's  climate control system,  raise the facility's heat high enough  to destroy all the tapes.  And you think sticking this behind the thermostat  will do all that?  From a authenticity standpoint,  if you wanted to hack a major corporation,  they would have off-site tape backups  at a location like Steel Mountain.  There. Deep in the Adirondacks.  In 145-plus acre former limestone mine.  3-ton steel gates, 24/7 armed guards,  closed circuit cameras, NOC staffing.  A fair amount of the plots and techniques and the hacks  and the approaches in "Mr. Robot"  are actually plausible.  The reason they're plausible:  it's 90% preparation  and only 10% execution.  There's a fair amount of understanding how  the other systems and the targets  that you're focusing on work,  and then having your, you know,  system and your hack ready  so that you can execute it, you know, when the time is right.  All we need is one security flaw.  Look at this place, man. It was built not to have any.  I see about six walking around.  Social engineering is one example of  a real-world hacking method,  and "Mr. Robot" illustrates it to perfection.  The social engineering component of hacking, I think,  is one of the most important aspects of it.  Taking advantage of that human element of security.  Bill Harper is our first exploit.  He isn't gonna give the search much scrutiny.  He'll get us to Level 1,  but Bill is not gonna be able to get us to Level 2.  And we need to get to Level 2.  You're gonna ask to speak to his supervisor, Wendy.  She'll get us to exactly where we need to be.  Then we'll be able to get rid of her from the van.  After that, you connect the Raspberry Pi  to the climate control system, and Bob's your uncle.  It doesn't matter how hardened your system is,  how great your security policies are,  what kind of software you have on your system.  There's always gonna be a human  that has access to information that's important.  And you can always find a way to manipulate that person.  People are all just people, right?  When it gets down to it, everyone's the same.  They love something.  They want something. They fear something.  Specifics help, but specifics don't change  the way that everyone is vulnerable.  It just changes the way that we access those vulnerabilities.  Great example of this is  Elliot impersonating a multi-million-dollar CEO  to get through the door.  I really think you should look me up.  It it just doesn't work like that.  I'm sorry, sir.  You impersonate someone that is in need of  some kind of help or assistance,  most of the time, they'll want to help you.  Mr. Sepiol?  Mr. Sepiol!  I have some good news.  And that's why Bill Harper is a perfect exploit,  desperate enough for the business to break protocol  and let me in.  Lonely enough to break.  They won't even know that they're giving you  some kind of information that will help you  hack their system later.  But it happens all the time.  Coming up on "Mr. Robot dec0d3d,"  we delve into the ethics of hacktivism.  If you feel that there is injustice,  sometimes the only way to deal with it  is to out-monster the monster.  Plus, we'll also discuss  what's in store for season two.  This is "Mr. Robot dec0d3d."  "Mr. Robot's" authentic portrayal  of computer hacking has alerted us to the real-world dangers we all face.  Now, we'll find out just how much we're at risk.  This is "Mr. Robot dec0d3d."  You're blowing up a gas pipeline.  The world is a dangerous place, Elliot.  Not because of those who do evil,  but because of those who look on and do nothing.  This is war. People will die.  C'est la mort.  I'm not killing anyone.  Tell me one thing, Elliot.  Are you a one or a zero?  That's the question you have to ask yourself.  Are you a yes or a no?  Are you gonna act or not?  Hacktivism is the act of compromising a computer system  or a network with a political agenda in mind.  One of the reasons for "Mr. Robot's" huge success  is that it speaks to the current generation's  distrust of our corporate culture  and to their frustration with the status quo.  But is taking matters into our own hands ever justified?  In many cases, hacktivism takes the form of  anti-establishment points of view.  The governments of the world and their corporate masters  do not want us to speak. Why?  Because we unlock truths.  We expose villains.  If you have any interest in waking from your slumber  and retrieving lost, damaged, or stolen memory,  we are here for you.  We have your back.  We are fsociety.  A lot of fsociety and the mask is obviously  evocative of Anonymous  and the Guy Fawkes mask  that a lot of people in Anonymous started to wear  back when they had their campaign against  the Church of Scientology.  Their declaration of war on Scientology  definitely served as an inspiration  for some of the content that you see on "Mr. Robot."  Corporate greed is a trickle-down desire  that reaches even the bottom of the food chain.  And for what? Wealth? Power?  What the shit?  It's a pathetic fable,  and you, Allsafe, are a defender of  Holy shit. fsociety knows us.  But your sweet dream is over  and your nightmare is about to begin.  Gideon Goddard, you are a lackey  to your corporate overlords  Someone shut this off.  Serving them, slave to master.  We are exposing your role to your world,  and the world is very angry.  I have a very anti-corporate, anti-establishment spirit  in me, and as much as I appreciate Occupy Wall Street,  I think as an adult I want to use that anger  to actually do something constructive and positive.  And I think, like, for example, the Arab Spring  is a good example where  they really kind of got empowered  through social media, actually,  through technology,  and really made change.  The Arab Spring is a really good example of  security in action.  If you're an activist in Bahrain,  you need your email, you need your Facebook account  to be secure, because if the government,  which controls all the Internet infrastructure,  can get in, that's it, you're done.  They're gonna take come to your house  and put a bag over your head  and no one will ever see you again.  Now whatever it is you think you're doing  freeing the world, freeing the masses,  the guys I work for, they ain't motivated by  "Kumbaya" shit like that.  Right and wrong is relative,  and it comes down to your own ideology,  your own moral compass,  and whether or not you feel passionate enough about that  to act on it.  How come I'm not in trouble?  Even though what you did was wrong,  you're still a good kid.  And that guy was a prick.  Sometimes that matters more.  I think the reason it thematically resonates  with people when you're watching a show like "Mr. Robot,"  if the antagonist is strong enough  or if you feel that there is injustice  coming from the antagonist,  if there's an injustice in the world  sometimes the only way to deal with it  is to out-monster the monster.  Fernando Vera, Shayla's supplier  and one of the worst human beings I've ever hacked.  He does all his drug transactions  through emails, IMs, Twitter.  He can't be allowed to exist anymore.  When you break down motivations of hackers,  it's money, ideology, coercion, ego,  or revenge, and sometimes criss and cross.  In "Mr. Robot,"  Elliot's ideology is founded on  his desire to avenge his father's death.  This isn't even about my revolution.  This is more than that for you.  This is about how those bastards slowly killed your father  and how you wished he'd done something about it,  but he didn't  because he was a zero,  just like you're being right now.  It's just a basic question of, you know,  when does the good outweigh the bad and vice versa?  You know, the very massive ethical questions  that this show will pose.  We hope that you will forge a better world,  a world that belongs to us again!  We'll see if Elliot and everybody in fsociety  are saving the world or destroying it.  Coming up, could a small group of hackers  actually change the world overnight?  It's not a fantasy. It's not science fiction.  Plus, we'll show you what's in store for season two.  Amen, amen, amen!  This is "Mr. Robot dec0d3d."  Evil Corp, you have been owned.  We at fsociety will smile  as we watch you and your dark soul die.  USA Network's "Mr. Robot" is  groundbreaking television,  with cutting edge storylines,  detailed world building,  and uncanny parallels to current events.  Certainly a subject matter that has become  more and more relevant as as the year has gone on.  Markets in Asia and Europe are tumbling dramatically.  Numerous governments in the European Union  are now in a free-for-all.  So this is what our evolution  Looks like: a simple program,  a worm that can make data unreadable.  Is that really all it takes to kill the world?  But could the fsociety hack  portrayed in the show actually happen?  What would the fallout of such a hack look like?  So we have plenty of companies that kind of fall into that  "too big to fail" moniker.  It's kind of scary to think about  what the impact of a destructive hack against them  could have on on society.  You could wreck large sectors of the power grid.  You could take down a whole bank.  You could do a lot of damage.  There are some key vulnerabilities  within our national infrastructure.  People could actually take the entire Internet down.  A lone hacker really can do immense damage,  or they can do immense good.  It's just all in the motivation.  I think it'd be possible.  Are there ramifications to that?  Of course.  Are there ramifications to that  that fsociety and Elliot didn't even think of?  Definitely. And we're gonna get into that  in season two.  There's gonna be, I bet,  a lot of people coming for them.  You know, law enforcement's gonna be coming in season two.  It has to.  Season two of "Mr. Robot" will  go deeper into this amazing world,  as the characters deal with the repercussions of  the Evil Corp hack.  So we come back in season two  and the hack has gone through  and kind of destroyed the world.  The FBI announced today,  and we can confirm that  fsociety engaged in this attack.  Now that Elliot knows who Mr. Robot is,  it's very different from last year.  What he's trying to do at all costs  is to remove him from his world.  In the second season, the story really picks up  and and moves forward.  You know, we set up all the characters,  and now really in the second season we're really kind of  letting all those characters run wild.  We're really going into an ensemble sort of  version of the show.  We're in four or five different worlds  at the same time.  Just watching that struggle and seeing people  at the end of their rope still persevere  and continue to fight,  even though their back's against the wall.  In the second season,  all the characters have sort of evolved.  The world is very different.  Expect to be a little surprised  because we're going down a very different direction  than the road we went down in season one.  And Sam has got it really mapped out.  When I was reading these scripts,  and I was just saying, "Oh, my God."  There's these clues that you kind of strand together.  I mean, we were like, Reddit people  discussing with each other what we thought would happen.  He comes up with some crazy stuff.  I don't know what I'm supposed to do.  I'll tell you exactly what you're gonna do.  You're gonna start listening to us.  The world is a better place because of what we did, Elliot,  and you're gonna realize that one way or another.  Now here's what I need you to do now.  So what has "Mr. Robot" taught us?  Working with the tech advisor has got me to change the way  I conduct myself.  Someone actually asked me the other day  if I wanted to hack them, could I?  Unfortunately, the answer was no,  and I really wish it was yes.  I tend to be paranoid about my own information.  My drives, my phone.  The microphone you have on your computer can be accessed.  The camera, as much as people don't think  it can be accessed, it can.  I tell other people to tape the camera on their laptop.  Oh, yeah, put the piece of tape on your laptop.  Absolutely a must.  I was literally actually about to get tape and do that.  That's great.  I've infected my paranoia with everyone.
1 What is it about society that disappoints you so much?  Sometimes I dream of saving the world, saving everyone from the invisible hand,  the one that controls us every day without us knowing it.  What if this all went away? The city, the money, all of it?  Hey, kiddo.  Exciting time in the world right now, exciting time.  Tell me about your father.  He had leukemia, made me swear to never tell anyone.  Finally I got so worried, I told my mom.  I tried to hug him, tell him I'm sorry,  and he shoved me so hard I fell backwards out the window.  I was eight years old.  If you don't take this deal, you'll become like me,  losing everyone's respect.  I gave up everything for this case.  - I don't want you to. - I'm not working there.  They killed my mother.  If you want to change things, perhaps you should try from within.  And I'm gonna erase all the debts we owe.  Every record of every credit card, loan, and mortgage will be wiped clean.  What do we all do now?  Guys, this isn't about what we'll do tomorrow.  This is about what we did. They're free because of us.  Jesus, what did I do?  I told you we shouldn't have done this.  I'm a little concerned for Tyrell  because he was acting very strange last I saw him.  I know you're behind it, fsociety, the server, Colby, Allsafe.  You're one constant in a sea of variables.  No matter what anyone tries to do, I will never leave.  I will always be right here. Do you understand that?  They're gonna try and get rid of me again, and I need you to not let them.  Listen to me. I will never leave you. I will never leave you alone again.  I am Mr. Robot.  I've always told you we'd end up working together, Elliot, but still  I have to know, why did you do it?  I wanted to save the world.  (SOFT MUSIC)    Why this mask? It's a bit silly, isn't it?  (PHONE VIBRATING)  Wellick.  I see.  I understand.  James, yes.  Yes, I'm aware of Mr. Goddard's request,  but it needs to be removed this moment.  Can you escalate it?  Thank you, James.    It should be ready.  (TENSE MUSIC)    What is it?  It's happening.    It's almost as if  something's come alive.      (GLASS SHATTERING)  - Oh, my God. - This is your fault!  - It's your fault! - I'm sorry!  I'm so sorry. I'm so sorry!  What did you do, you son of a bitch?  - He's bleeding! - It was an accident.  God says there are no accidents!  Son, son, please talk to me. Talk to me please.  God help us, he's bleeding.  The neighbors are looking. This is embarrassing.  Son, son, wake up. Wake up!  God, is he okay? Ask if he's okay!  Can't you see he's not responding, Magda?  - It's your fault, it's your fault! - It was an accident.  God says there are no accidents.  I'm so sorry. Please call an ambulance!  Call an ambulance!  (MONITOR BEEPING)  As you can see by the images, everything appears to be normal,  which is good news  because there were no lesions  from the scan,  no hemorrhaging or bleeding,  mild concussion, a few stitches.  The forearm, however, is broken,  so that will require a cast.  - How much will that be? - Excuse me?  How much will the co-pay be?  Well, that's something  you need to discuss with the billing department.  - We'll talk about that later - Shut up.  You've lost your job.  We have no money.  How are we supposed to pay for this  on top of all your other bills?  Don't touch me.  I told you, there won't be any bills.  Mr. and Mrs. Alderson, please,  I'm going to have to ask you to step outside for a second.  I'd like to talk to Elliot alone.  Elliot.  Elliot, I want you to know  that you are going to be just fine.  Now, that was quite a spill you took today,  but I promise, you have a long and healthy life ahead of you.  Now, Elliot, there are just a few questions  - that I need to ask you. - (VOICE FADING)  (TENSE MUSIC)    (I Monster's "Daydream In Blue" playing)    Daydream   I fell asleep beneath the flowers   For a couple of hours   On a beautiful day   Daydream   I dream of you amid the flowers   For a couple of hours   Such a beautiful day   Time to get up.   Today started just like yesterday  and the day before that and the day before that  and every day for the last month,  a loop, my perfectly constructed loop.  This is going to be affecting our economy  in ways that are extraordinarily significant.  The FBI announced today, and we can confirm,  that Tyrell Wellick  and fsociety engaged in this attack.  They caused a lot of damage, and we will respond.  We will respond proportionally,  and we will respond in a place and time that we choose.  That's not something that I will announce  at a press conference.  At 8:00 a.m. my daily program  begins by having breakfast with my friend, Leon.  There's this one episode  where they go to this Chinese restaurant,  and they're just waiting for a table the entire time.  Like, they don't even eat at the end, bro.  He just discovered "Seinfeld."  Maybe I'm overthinking it, though.  And talks way too much about it.  It's really fucking with him.  It's really fucking with me.  But it's perfect for me.  I don't have to say anything. I can just listen.  God, man, that Kramer dude,  if I knew him in real life, I'd knock his ass out.  At 10:00 a.m. I help out around the house.  More broadly, though, this points to the need  for us to work with the international community  to start setting up  some very clear rules of the road.  Right now it's sort of the Wild West.  At 12:00 p.m. I have lunch with Leon.  And then there's this one  where they're stuck in a garage the whole time.  Like, what?  That's not a TV show, bro.  Like, where's the story?  It just makes no sense.  At 2:00 p.m. we'll check out a basketball game.  Hot Carla, the local pyro, is usually there.  She's become like my personal totem.  - Whoo, three points, bitch. - (YELLING)  I still don't understand why people like sports.  They get so emotional over the weirdest things.  But I do see the beauty in the rules,  the invisible code of chaos hiding  behind the menacing face of order.  At 4:30 p.m. I clean up around the house again.  There hasn't been anything like this in the past.  That's part of what makes this issue of cybersecurity  so urgent.  At 6:00 p.m.  I have dinner with Leon.  Though maybe I just  need to make peace with it, you know what I'm saying?  As you can tell, we eat most meals together.  Like, maybe that's the show's point,  that shit is just pointless, you know?  Like, life, love,  and the meanings therein.  I'll tell you, the human condition  is a straight-up tragedy, cuz. Word.  Like I said, I never have to talk,  and the repetition is good for me now.  It keeps my regimen intact.  Two days a week I go to a church group.  I don't get the rules here either,  but I need to keep socializing myself.  It's good for me.  Besides, these people seem normal.  - ALL: Amen. - Amen.  Do not get into a pattern  in which you are intimidated by these kind of criminal attacks.  America knows how to solve problems,  and when we work together, we can't be stopped.  A new future is ready to be written.  I've been keeping a journal.  It's the only way to keep my program  running like it's supposed to.  Such a beautiful day     See you in the morning.  And then I go to bed.  My mom has no computer or Internet access  to tempt me into the night.  All that's left for me is just ordinary analog sleep  ending the day's loop.  You might not think it's a way to live,  but why not?  Repeating the same tasks each day  without ever having to think about them,  isn't that what everybody does?  Keep things on repeat  to go along with their "NCISes"  and Lexapro.  Isn't that where it's comfortable?  In the sameness?  Why your mom?  Why her specifically?  She's the strictest person I know.  But you've attributed a lot of your childhood trauma  Better the devil you know than the devil  you don't, right?  Do you feel alone?  Darlene comes by sometimes.  Is there anything you miss about your old life?  It doesn't matter even if I did.  Why would you say that?  'Cause I can't trust myself back there.  Why do you think you can't trust yourself?  I'd like you to respond to my question, please.  Elliot, it took a lot for me  to talk to you after what you did,  but I agreed with the condition  that you were going to be more open with me.  I was very clear when we discussed  It's not that I don't trust myself.  I don't trust him.  (SOFT MUSIC)  Hello again.  Yes, I'm talking to you this time.  I'm sure you wanted to hear what I told Krista back there,  but I'm not ready to trust you yet,  not after what you did.  You kept things from me, and I don't know  if I can tell you secrets like before.  Friends are supposed to be honest with each other,  and you weren't.  It's gonna take a while to rebuild this relation  Talking to your friend again?  I thought we were done with all that.  Here.  Check that out.  Lots of nicer friends in there for you.  (SUSPENSEFUL MUSIC)    We can't stay here.  There's more work to be done.  Our revolution needs a leader,  and what are we doing instead?  Journaling.  Che Guevara is throwing up in his grave right now.  You think this is gonna get rid of me?  I am not to be gotten rid of.  This zombie act you're pulling?  It don't work on us.  This control you think you have?  It's an illusion.  You want my attention?  Tell me what I want to know.  Tell me where Tyrell is.  I can't do that.    Then go fu  (GUNSHOT)  (TENSE MUSIC)    Are you done?      What's next on this roller coaster  of a regimen, needle-pointing?              It is not hyperbole to say  we're in a grave financial situation.  All of this cautionary sentiment out there,  it's not just Wall Street hoopla.  The more I talk about it, the more terrified I become.  Fortuntately, the original plan that was put in place  was ineffective.  Most experts agree that this is not just a crisis,  but a very dire one.  Something absolutely needs to be done.  Even though the European Union has been denying that it could affect them,  this week we saw that they were wrong.  The banks cannot lend money that they don't have  so the economy is at a standstill.  (ALARM BLARING)  (ALARM STOPS)  And I'm just the messenger. I am telling you, folks,  this is what they don't want you to hear,  because a union strike on the Comet natural gas plant  will cause an energy shortage the likes  of which has never been seen in the northeast.  Without literal power we will have no power.  This is part of a strategy  to declare economic war on this country,  and they know it, they know exactly what they are doing,  and 2015 will be known as the year that America,  this great nation,  swapped democracy for dictatorship.  (PANTING)  (WATER SPLASHES)  (CLASSICAL MUSIC RISES)    (WATER RUNNING)  Ahh! Ahh! Ahh!  (CLASSICAL MUSIC PLAYING)  On television blabbing on and on and on,  telling people lying to them.  - Instead, bring honesty - (PHONE RINGING)  somebody who can explain it best.  because this "crisis" is happening.  Hello? Hello?  (CLASSICAL MUSIC BLARING)  Why don't you tell your viewers  about the Weimar Republic?  Because the similarities between them are disturbing.  (ALARM BLARING)  Meaning the end of the world as we know it.  (CLASSICAL MUSIC BLARING)  (ALARM BLARING)  Tyranny in the streets.  (PHONE RINGING)  - Hello? - Hello?  (ALARM BLARING)  - Hello? - Hello.  - (CLASSICAL MUSIC BLARING) - (ALARM BLARING)  That's right.  (EVERYTHING BLARING)  Stop!  Well, what am I supposed to do?  I mean, nothing is working.  Unplug what?  Everything is inside the walls.  That's how it was installed  when I ordered the smart house package.  (ALARM BLARING)  Now the alarm is going off, and it's freezing.  It's below 40.  I have a place in Greenwich,  but you don't expect me to  How long is it gonna take before this all gets fixed?  (ALARM BLARING)  (CLASSICAL MUSIC SLOWLY RISES)    (EVERYTHING CEASES)  (TENSE MUSIC)    The tracking on her phone is working,  and she's headed north as we speak.  How long you think she's gonna stay away for?  Long enough.    The collective result of these attacks  could be a cyber Pearl Harbor,  physical destruction and the loss of life,  and create a new, profound sense  of vulnerability.  As director of the CIA and Secretary of Defense,  I have understood that cyber attacks  I hope you don't mind I came.  Something wrong?  It's good to see you, Gideon.  You, too.  I know we didn't leave things on the best of terms.  Is it true? What I heard about Allsafe?  Oh, there is no Allsafe.  I've had to furlough everyone.  I'm hoping to get up and running again,  but everyone's telling me it's over.  Gee, I wonder whose fault that is.  Was that you or me?  Getting all mixed up, I can't recall.  Let me get to my point.  The FBI believes that I was behind the hack  or complicit in some way.  I've given them all the evidence I can.  I've cooperated every step of the way,  but they still keep coming at me.  They don't trust me.  In fact, I think they might be hacking my email.  I know someone is.  And now you're wondering who that someone is, aren't you?  There are logins from times and machines I don't recognize.  Because if it was me, then that means it was you.  How about it, huh?  Could you live with yourself knowing that you framed Gideon?  I keep changing the password,  - but it still hap - (GROANS)  Elliot?  - What's wrong? - Go ahead, tell him.  Tell him that you're slowly descending into madness.  - Stop. - What? Stop what?  There are only so many times  before my bullets finally  penetrate that thick skull of yours,  and as the blood trickles out,  so goes any sense of reason.  Round and round we go,  you not knowing what you did or didn't do,  our infinite loop of insanity.  If you know anything at all,  or if there's anything you can do to help me  I need you to.  I can't help you.  Are you really gonna let him take the fall for this?  Look at him, a scared, small animal.  Well, that's that's unacceptable.  Now he's doing what all small animals do when they're scared,  pretend they're bigger and scarier.  Look, if you're not gonna do anything about this,  I'm afraid you've left me no choice  but to go to them with what I know,  which, given the things I know about the day you left,  it's pretty damning.  Now, I'm asking you one last time  to do the right thing.  He does have a point.  He does know a lot, perhaps too much.  I wonder if I slashed open his neck right now,  would it be me doing it, or would it be you?  - No. - Yes.  I am going to go to them.  I'm going to tell them everything.  Do you understand, Elliot? Everything.  Truth is, though, right, it doesn't matter.  You start adding up all the choices  you've been making, they all add up to one thing.  You add up to one thing  me.  What's going on over there?  (TENSE MUSIC)          I'm not gonna lie, Gideon got to me,  but now is when I need the regimen the most.    After all, that's the whole reason for the routine,  to stay as sane as possible  until he's gone,  and once he's gone,  I can finally be the real me again.  No, not just that it's pointless,  but maybe  it just means nothing, you know?  Like Costanza says, a cold, random universe.  Bro, what's up with the  Nothing, man.  Gideon's gonna rat you out.  He probably already has.  Hey, you can't ignore this.  They have eyes on you.  This is how they work you.  I'm not gonna change my mind.  I'm sticking to my regimen.  Hey, I am not some tumor to be excised,  do you understand? The opposite.  I'm the organ vital to your existence.  Now, if you insist on keeping this up,  I'm gonna go from annoyed to hurt, and, kiddo,  trust me, you do not want to hurt my feelings.  How do I take off a mask when it stops being a mask,  when it's as much a part of me as I am?  (ALL CHEERING)  We keep fighting.  Like the world we unmasked,  we will find our true selves again.  Maybe after wiping away the thick, grimy film  of Facebook friend requests  and Vine stars  we can all see the light of day.  I know we haven't talked in a while.  Maybe you only trust me about as much  as I trust you right now,  but I'm gonna ask you to have hope for me anyway.  Just, please, have hope.  (BREATHING HEAVILY)  (ALL CHEERING)  (INDISTINCT CHATTER)  I'm gonna take a selfie. I'm gonna take a selfie.  You guys ready?  Yeah!  - We got the balls! - Whoo!  (SOFT MUSIC)      (ALL CHEERING)  ALL: Whoo!  We got the balls!  (ALL CHEERING)    Give me your phone.  - Why? I didn't post any - Give me your phone.    (PHONE HITS THE FLOOR)  (STOMPING)  Ahh!    We are in a war,  and we are on the losing side of it.  We are on our knees with guns to our heads,  and they are picking us off one by one.    Susan Jacobs,  the general counsel at E Corp.  You want to know what her nickname is  inside the company?  Madam Executioner,  not just because she could kill any lawsuit filed against them,  but because those lawsuits usually involved deaths.  These are the cowards we are dealing with.  (GLASS SHATTERS)  We have been on our knees for too long,  and it's time to stand up.  Make it a four-hour SDR if necessary.  Take surveillance detection stops.  Go into pharmacies. Run errands.  Disrupt data points.  No one takes the same route back here twice.  I don't want anyone burning this location.  Where is everyone else?  Don't know.  They were always half in.  What what you're doing here, Darlene, and what you're saying?  I mean, you sounded like George W. Bush,  for crying out loud.  Okay, first of all, that's low.  Secondly, give me some credit.  The speech is bullshit, but it works.  - It riles them up. - Yeah, to what end though?  You know, sawing off balls,  making protest signs? We were more than that.  I mean, we you know, we accomplished something.  We we took them down.  Then why does it feel like they're still winning?  That what we did made it worse, not better?  You know I'm right.  We didn't finish them off.  That's all there is to it.  People everywhere came out to support us mobiley,  and right now they need to know we haven't given up,  that we meant what we said about changing the world.  (SUSPENSEFUL MUSIC)      Don't be half in like the others.  This thing we started, it deserves more than that.    Have you, uh, have you seen Elliot?  That's not important.  This is everything right now.    Absolutely unfair, madam, absolutely unfair.  We were done with our payments.  Ma'am, we are doing our best here.  At this moment we cannot verify that you paid all your payments.  Absolutely ridiculous. I have.  I have all my bills right here.  I was never late on one,  and I also have copies of the checks that I sent  People have been forging paper records.  We haven't set up a system to verify these sorts of claims.  It took me three weeks to get this appointment, madam.  Now you're telling me you can't help me?  What kind of business is this?  I've been responsible for the last 20 years  in paying off my home.  Where's your accountability?  Yet, if the tables were turned,  you would have kicked me out of my own house.  You know what? Cancel my account.  I'm done doing business with you crooks.  You deserve what you're getting.  Ma'am, I can't say  for sure we can give you all your money  if you close right now.  Unbelievable.  I know what I have.  I just want to cancel.  (PHONE RINGS)  It's on my computer too.  I have the IT guy helping me right now.  (EXHALES SHARPLY)  (DOOR OPENS)  Sorry I'm late.  I was coming from my place in Greenwich.  I was on the phone with the FBI all night.  We can't confirm the sender,  but the email we received is authentic,  more than likely the same hackers  from the ransomware.  Unbelievable.  What are their demands, again?  $5.9 million.  (SCOFFS)  $5.9 million  to be delivered to Battery Park City,  9:00 p.m. tonight, no police.  If we want to pay the ransom, the FBI will not sanction it.  We cannot negotiate with these people.  Our techs are looking into it.  We'll find a way to decrypt it and get the system  How long?  Five days, tops.  Five days for our banking system to be down?  That's a lot of money down the drain.  I don't even want to mention the optics.  We can't afford this hack right now,  and frankly, I think we can find $5.9 million  in between our couch cushions.  It's nothing.  My opinion as general counsel is to pay it.  What's this other request they made?  "You must send one of your chiefs  and no one else?"  I think they meant one of our chief officers.  - (LAUGHING) - This is a joke.  Did they really expect one of us to go out there, hmm?  What are we talking about here? These people  are terrorists, pure and simple.  Unfortunately, I have to agree with Scott on this.  It's risky.  We have no idea what these guys are capable of.  So you think we should pay the ransom,  but you don't want any of us to do it?  We can get one of our security officers to go undercover.  Yes, and risk all of this blowing up in our faces.  No.  If we're going to even consider doing this,  we shouldn't give them any reason to do more damage.  (SIGHS)  I'll do it.  I'm Chief Technology Officer.  I qualify.  I'll do it.  (TENSE MUSIC)    If we're gonna pay these bastards,  I want to be the one that faces them.  (TENSE MUSIC)
1   (POP MUSIC PLAYING IN THE DISTANCE)  Anything?  Nothing yet.  (Phil Collins' "Take Me Home" playing in distance)              Who is that? Who is that, that guy on the bike?  He looks like he's coming straight toward me.  Okay, he's closing in. We're coming.  - No, wait. - It's too risky.  - We need to fly in. - Wait.  Are you from E Corp?  - Who are you? - Just making a delivery.  Please sign here.        - What is this? - Someone grab the biker.  - Grab the biker. - No, no, no,  they haven't picked up the money yet.    Mr. Knowles, we don't recommend that.  We should have our unit search it first.        Sir, are you all right?  Should we come in? Are you all right?  (PHONE VIBRATING)  Is that your phone?  You have ten seconds to do what it says,  or every Bank of E system will be bricked.  Sir, who was the caller?    Mr. Knowles, what are you doing?    No I,   I don't mind   Oh I,   I don't mind   No I,   I don't mind   So take,   Take me home   'Cause I don't remember   Take, take me home   'Cause I don't remember   Take, take me home   'Cause I don't remember   Take, take me home   Oh, Lord   Well I've been a prisoner all my life   And I can say to you   But I don't remember   Take, take me home   'Cause I don't remember   Take, take me home   'Cause I don't remember   Take, take me home   'Cause I don't remember   Take, take me home   'Cause I don't remember   Take, take me home   'Cause I don't remember   Take, take   There's no way.  We've already committed $900 billion.  It would be irresponsible if the feds sent more.  And we're not going to ask the government  to pony up the cash.  How do you burn through that kind of money  in 30 days anyway?  You have something right right there.  Finally you're seeing my point.  No, no, on your face.  The point is, Phillip,  we've already given you our burst of cash on hand.  We can't give you any more.  Well, we'll sell the T-bills to the Chinese,  and that money in return  will be used as a loan for our company.  Look, the real recovery program is months from being done.  The public is hoarding cash.  The housing market is grinding to a halt.  The big three are on the verge of collapse.  Everyone at the commission needs to see results  within the next three weeks  before we can do anything else.  Look, rebuilding our database  is the only solution to this problem.  This is not my opinion.  These are the facts, ladies and gentlemen.  Now, I've cooperated with you on every level.  I even have the goddamn FBI working out of my offices.  Janet, Mary, Jack, please.  Tell me you didn't ask me  to fly down all the way to D.C.  just so you could, what, hear yourselves complain?  You've got to resign.  We have no other options.  The President can't go to Congress  with a bailout right now.  In the fallout of the Great Depression,  FDR closed all the banks for a bank holiday,  and then he reopened them in stages  when they were reported to being sound.  Later, historians discovered what we in this room now know,  that those reports, they were mostly lies.  Nevertheless, it worked.  It worked because the public believed  the government had everything under control.  You see, that is the business model  for this great nation of ours.  Every business day when that market bell rings,  we con people into believing in something,  the American dream, family values.  Could be freedom fries for all I care.  It doesn't matter  as long as the con works  and people buy and sell  whatever it is we want them to.  If I resign,  then any scrap of confidence  the public is already clinging onto will be destroyed,  and we all know  a con doesn't work  without the confidence.  If this was the best idea  you could come up with for a win,  I shouldn't be the one resigning.  I have to head back to New York.  Let me know when you've locked up the votes,  and wipe your goddamn mouth.  (DRAMATIC MUSIC)        (GASPS)  Well?  You moved.  And?  Now I'm gonna punish you.  (TENSE MUSIC)    Ahem.  Ah, you know, usual, coffee, black, turkey sandwich  on whole wheat, lettuce, mayo, muenster cheese.  Already working on it.  You always take good care of me, Ahmed.  How's the wife doing?  She's good, she's good, thank you.  Oh, I haven't seen her in a while.  Where is she these days?  - Our daughter is sick. - Oh, that right?  That's too bad.  - Now, which one is she again? - Sally.  Sally, uh, the young one, right?  - Yeah. - Sally, such a pretty name.  Now, is that traditionally an Iranian name, or  Come on, lady, I'm in a rush here.  Jesus H, all right.  God, Calm down.  Well, I guess I should pay up, Ahmed,  before I get lynched over here.  (BOTH CHUCKLE)  , am I right?  Um  and this?  DiPierro, he's waiting for us.  Yup.  (SUSPENSEFUL MUSIC)    (INDISTINCT CHATTER)      (BEEPING)  (DOOR BUZZES)  When you look closely at the seams between order  and chaos,  do you see the same things I see?  The strain, the tears,  the glimpses of truth hidden underneath.  Why do they fight so desperately  to mask what they are?  Or is it that they become who they are  when they put on the mask?  Sometimes I wonder what you hide behind,  my silent friend.  What mask do you wear?  Or are you just as afraid as the rest of them?  Me?  Am I afraid?  Nah, man.  I'm different.  Hey, dipshit,  can't you see we need the ball?  (TENSE MUSIC)    - This ball? - Yeah, that ball.  What, you slow or something?  What's up?  Nah, I ain't slow, bro.  Go get your own ball.  - Yo, man. - What?  What's your problem, son?  - What's your problem? - You my problem.  You need to learn how to speak to people.  Oh, you need to have respect, son.  I got it.    Hey, I got it.    We're all just here to have a good time, right?  Yes, sir.  (INDISTINCT CHATTER)  Maxine's been acting a little off lately.  She really perked up when she saw you.  You a dog person?  Used to have one.  Oh, yeah?  What happened to it?  Don't have her anymore.  Hmm.  Elliot, right?  I'm Ray.  I've seen you here before.  You must like the games, huh?  They put Bradstreet in.  He's good on the boards.  Come on, boys.  Look at these guys. What do you see?  A lot of care and effort  over what amounts to a pretty shitty game.  What's Maxine see?  A bunch of dumb animals, can't think past anything  but getting a ball in a hoop.  What do they want you to see?  Badass homies  ready to kill if you step to 'em.  Question is  which is the truth?  Maybe all of 'em.  Maybe none of 'em.  Maybe truth don't even exist.  Maybe what we think is all we got,  which is why I'm a little jealous of Maxine over here,  'cause all she gives a shit about is eating and sleeping.  Ain't that right, girl?  (INDISTINCT CHATTER)  Not the loquacious type, I get it.  Me, I talk all the time,  but I guess you picked up on that.  It's cool though. Communication  is good for my line of work.  Takes a lot of it to run a good business.  But unlike you, when it comes to computers,  well,  I get them about as much as Maxine here gets E. E. Cummings,  so when I heard  Whatever you heard, it's not true.  I don't do that anymore.  Just tell him you'll help.  Try it once, huh?  Let that old feeling come back.  You know, this morning over breakfast my wife  told me I'd make a friend today.  Not many people to talk to around here  except for these knuckleheads.  It's cool if we continue talking?  No, thanks.  Damn, man.  That's some cold, brutal shit right there.  I'ma have to go listen to some Adele on repeat  when I get back home.  Okay, I can take a hint.  Come on, babe.  How long you gonna keep us in this analog nightmare?  As long as it takes.  Without my weapon of choice,  Mr. Robot is unplugged, powerless.  He'll try to wear us down,  but as long as we stick to the regimen,  he can't take control  no matter how much of an illusion he thinks this is.  I mean, it's a disgrace,  an absolutely disgrace police have not found this guy.  Not only does all the evidence  behind the Five/Nine attacks lead to him,  but he is the leading suspect  behind the Sharon Knowles murder.  I've said it before. I'll say it again.  The misogynistic blind eye by law enforcement in this  My problem, Stassi.  I hit her for a (BLEEP) reason.  She (BLEEP) my ex-boyfriend  Hey, "Vanderpump's" on. You want to watch?  - Another time. - You know what?  I'll walk away and let this be about you.  How was I that time? Did I do okay?  I didn't hurt you too bad, right?  You're spoiling it again.  At least I didn't break a couple up.  Do you want to go have a drink at the bar?  You know, I know the guy who works here  makes awesome mescal cocktails.  We used to bartend together back at this place  We're not to be seen together, remember?  That was our agreement.  (KNOCKING)  That's him, isn't it?  Freaks me out. Can't he wait downstairs?  He's doing his job.  She's still in the tub.  You said 2:00. It's 2:15.  Hand me a towel?  Go.  We can't leave together.  (INDISTINCT CHATTER)  So unfair.  She came out of nowhere a month ago.  Sometimes I see her talking to herself.  Oh, my gosh, you did too?  So weird.  Yeah, Melissa hates her too.  - (PHONE RINGING) - Shit, I got to take this.  I'll call you back.  I'm telling you, it's non-negotiable.  No one's going to let you  take that question off the table.  The money burning is a big part  of why everyone wants the exclusive.  Bloomberg, line two for you.  Except for CNN, which you guys don't want  I got to call you back. Hi, Foster.  I thought the deadline was noon.  It's noon now.  It's five past, Angela, and  Ryder's agreeing to the questions.  He's also giving us top of the hour and Kelly.  Price doesn't even like Kelly.  I'll budge on the time slot,  but I can't on the question. It's fair game.  Talk to the segment producer and call me back.  Angela, I already know the answer.  You were supposed to make this happen five minutes ago  Just call me back.  Call Markinson.  We don't want CNBC,  or Fox News, for that matter.  I think you should let Melissa handle this.  (PHONE RINGING)  - Done deal? - Not gonna happen.  Scott Knowles burning $5.9 million  is on the table or not at all.  We're going with CNBC.  They're sending a deal memo as we speak.  You know I would rather go with you.  You got to twist their arm.  Bullshit.  Did you just hang up on Bloomberg?  Are you trying to get fired?  Leave.  Excuse me?  Leave.  (SCOFFS) When Melissa finds out  Get her.  Go ahead and get her. Tell her whatever you want,  but right now get out of my fucking cubicle.  (SUSPENSEFUL MUSIC)      (ROCK MUSIC PLAYING)    (PHONE RINGING)  Fine, we'll take it off,  but we're talking about the bailout  and Plouffe's suicide.  I can't do Plouffe.  Then we're walking for real.  Segment producer is pissed that this is what  The guy committed suicide on national TV.  It's out of respect for his family.  Trust me, I'm doing you a favor.  You don't want to ask about that.  Please, it's been a month.  One question, and I have to approve it.  Hi, Melissa.  Bloomberg TV agreed to all the points  on the exclusive.  Foster's sending you the deal memo.  I need to get coffee before the staff meeting.  (BABY GURGLING)  (FOOTSTEPS APPROACHING)              (EXHALES SHARPLY) Sorry I'm late.  Coming up to the city was just a nightmare.  The tunnel was at a snail's pace.  E-ZPass is down again.  They're saying indefinitely this time,  but I cannot take the train in this heat.  It must have been in the 90s today.  Okay, sorry.  So?  I've decided to stay.  We agreed to discuss this.  We have for several weeks now.  Need I remind you I was against  you taking Colby's job offer in the first place?  And then even when you convinced me  that we should wait to see where it would lead,  we agreed it was only gonna be for a brief trial basis.  I think we were both clearly wrong about their motives.  Oh, I think you are being naive.  And I don't think that we need to have these talks anymore.  I like my job, and I'm not quitting.  That's my decision.  (EXHALES SHARPLY)  You never had any intention of leaving, did you?  I know you think they're pulling something,  but that's because you can't imagine anyone ever  valuing me as a real asset,  when the truth is I've done more for you and the lawsuit  than you've ever done for me or yourself.  I have value,  and even though you don't see it, they do.  They are barbarians in $10,000 suits,  but I see your resolve.  I know when to cut my losses.  A guy walks up to a woman at a bar.  He flirts with her.  He makes small talk,  but the woman insists she isn't gonna go home with him.  Guy says, "What if I offer you $1 million  to sleep with me?"  The woman's never had a million dollars in her life.  She stops and considers the offer very seriously.  The guy changes his mind, says,  "What if I change my offer  to a dollar instead?"  Woman is aghast.  "What kind of woman do you think I am?"  Guy says, "We already figured that out.  Now we're just negotiating."  (INDISTINCT CHATTER)  Are you alone?  (TRANQUIL MUSIC)    Welcome to positive affirmations volume three,  success and money.    You'll hear the affirmations repeated twice.  I will leave a space for you to either repeat  mentally or out loud.  Please use this on a consistent basis  to form new neural pathways.  Good luck.  I am confident.  I am confident.  I am confident.  My confidence is powerful.  My confidence is powerful.  My confidence is powerful.  I recognize myself as exceptional.  I recognize myself as exceptional.  I recognize myself as exceptional.  I will follow my dreams no matter what.  I will follow my dreams no matter what.  Come on, sit down.  (INDISTINCT CHATTER)  Maxine wanted to come over and say hi.  She missed you.  I think the damn dog  might actually like you more than me.  See that smile?  (CHUCKLES)  Even though we're technically not friends,  I told my wife we were,  was too embarrassed to say otherwise.  You know, you two would get along.  She likes to ignore me too.  Hey, man, I don't mean to be an asshole,  but like I said before, I'm all good.  (LAUGHING)  Sorry, I actually don't know why I'm laughing.  I though you made some joke I don't get,  so I usually just fake laugh at those,  but  really, I'm confused.  I thought we were on the same page.  About what?  When we spoke last night.  I don't know what you're talking about, man.  I didn't see you last night.  You really don't remember.  (SOFT MUSIC)    You feeling okay, chief?      That's what the control, the regimen, the journal,  my perfectly constructed loop,  what this whole thing's been about.  (SUSPENSEFUL MUSIC)    Last night till this morning,  while I was sleeping, I can't account for it,  a gap in my consciousness, and somehow he  What do they see when they see you coming?  And this is why I'm different.  Sometimes my mask takes over.  Why did you talk to him?  Because I'm gonna make you realize.  What?  What will you make me realize?  That they see me.  (TENSE MUSIC)          (LAUGHING)    (LAUGHING)  (LAUGHING HYSTERICALLY)  What's so funny?  We started a movement.  We were meant to lead it.  Now, get back on a terminal now.  Give me what I want or keep shooting me.    Tell me where Tyrell is,  or shoot me again  'cause the only one it's gonna drive mad is you  not me.      I'm late for my church group.  Peace.  This time targeting the Bank of E network  in an elaborate ransomware attack.  The malicious malware targeted the bank's computer servers  and spread to multiple branches  in North America, encrypting the data  and rendering the systems unusable  until a ransom was paid.  This more militant variant of the hacker collective  forced Scott Knowles, the CTO of E Corp,  to burn $5.9 million in public view.  Shortly thereafter pictures surfaced on social media  under the name #OPdailyallowance.  Now, this is considered a direct response  to E Corp's unpopular program,  which would lower their daily cash withdrawal allowances  for customers to $50.  Some stunt, huh?  Everybody's laughing it off as a dumb prank,  but these guys know what they're doing.  Who thought that hard cash would be this valuable right now?  We're reliving Black Tuesday,  the Great Depression.  Warning lights were flashing.  I mean, in the last two years  the Army Corps of Engineers,  the Energy Department, the State Department,  and the Office of Personnel Management  were all hacked.  The government claimed they were boosting security,  but what came of it?  The same as 1929.  Shit hit the fan.  An act like this changes people, changes society.  I'm just having a drink.  I'm sorry,  and I'm rambling like a fanatic.  Is there something else you want to talk about?  The beaches of Barbados,  espresso on Rue Montmartre,  sitting around a campfire in the Adirondacks?  I'm married.  I'm Brock  and I know you're Gideon Goddard.  - I watch way too much news. - God.  I can't believe I'm a tabloid sensation.  More of a diehard fan.  I got a smile.  I'm on a roll.  When did he leave you?  What, was that on the news too?  No, just your face.  It's obvious why they use you as their patsy.  You give off a very sympathetic  and honest vibe.  You're the perfect vessel for their lies.  Yeah, well, I don't I don't know  what to say to that, but, uh  I'll agree with you that it sure as hell feels like  there's something bigger than me in control.  Thank you.  For what?  Tomorrow I'm gonna be a hero.  I'm sorry?  You may just be a patsy, but you're an important one.  In fact, I don't think I've ever met  a bigger crisis actor than you before.  - This is for our country. - (GUNSHOT)  (ALL SCREAMING)  (MUSIC BOX PLAYING)    (BABY CRYING)        (PHONE VIBRATING)    And there shall be no more death,  neither sorrow nor crying,  neither shall there be any more pain,  for the former things are passed away,  and he that sat upon the throne said,  "Behold, I make all things new,"  and he said unto me,  "Write, for these words are true and faithful,"  and he said unto me, "It is done.  "I am Alpha and Omega,  "the beginning and the end.  "I will give unto him that is athirst of the fountain  "of the water of life freely.  "He that overcometh shall inherit all things,  "and I will be his God  "and he shall be my son."  (PHONE NOISE)  (PHONE NOISE)  (PHONE NOISE)  (PHONE NOISE)  Hello?  Is it really you?  Who is this?  (LAUGHING)  Bonsoir, Elliot.
1 How do I take off a mask when it stops being a mask,  when it's as much a part of me as I am?  - 10:00 a.m. - Amen.  12:00 p.m.  Life, love  - 2:00 p.m. - I'm Ray.  To stay as sane as possible until he's gone.  I am not to be gotten rid of!  I find you refreshing young, bold  exactly what we need right now.  The FBI believes that I was behind the hack.  Gideon's gonna rat you out.  (GUNSHOT, PEOPLE SCREAMING)  Something ain't right about this guy.  Bang!  I don't trust him.  We are in a war, and they are picking us off one by one.  (GUNSHOT)  Tyrell Wellick and fsociety engaged in this attack.  (CHUCKLES)  Bonsoir, Elliott.  (SURF CRASHING, SEAGULLS SQUAWKING)  (BELL JINGLING)  Ding, dong, ding   All right, man, explain this to me again.  Why are you taking me to an arcade?  Well, I'm trying to tell you, but you don't listen.  That's the problem with your generation  too ADD to really take in this world.  All right, all right, break it down for me.  Well, to really get it,  I got to take you back to 1924.  Husband-and-wife team, the Bedfords,  opened up a freak show/ dwarf sanctuary  on this land you're about to be at.  Dwarf sanctuary?  Yeah, they called it the Bedford Lilliputian  a whole miniature city  scaled down for dwarf and midget inhabitants.  I mean, they also had other freaks  like lion-faced man, limbless woman, shit like that.  But the dwarves were the big moneymaker.  Suffice to say, the Bedfords were a big hit  lines around the corner,  the biggest attraction out here in Coney Island.  Then one year, rumor has it,  the husband wakes up one Christmas morning,  grabs a large kitchen knife, slices his wife's throat open,  stabs his little kids to death, then slits his own wrists.  - Huh. - No motive was ever determined.  God.  Cut to the 1960s.  Woman named Mary Meghan Fisher decided to buy up the place,  turned it into an old-school arcade  pinball machines, Skee-Ball, the likes.  Called it "Games Games Games."  Shit, a bit on the nose, if you ask me, not to mention repetitive,  but at least it had clarity.  Mary Meghan even installed a little bar so she could get drunk with her friends  and shoot pool at night.  And so she did, almost every night  till one time in '86, she got so liquored up,  she accidentally fell off the barstool  and landed hard on the pool cue she was holding.  Oh.  Went right through her neck, clean.  Killed her right on the spot.  What in the f are you telling me this for, man?  (DOOR CREAKS AND BANGS)  Place remained dormant until 2000,  when Ned Bosham bought up the joint under the name  Fun Society Amusement LLC.  Ned wanted to reopen it as a classic arcade.  Now, why anyone would want to start an arcade in 2000  beats me, but Ned Bosham had it in his mind  that that's what he wanted to do, and so he did.  (CLICKING AND CREAKING)  About a year ago, his oldest son, Harold, wanted to sell it,  but Ned wasn't down with that.  So the oldest son, Harold, being simpleminded and needing money  for whatever simpleminded folks need money for,  decided Dad had to go.  So Harold stole his twin brother's hunting rifle  and shot Dad in the face.  Now, what Harold wasn't counting on,  considering he had never fired a weapon before,  was the kickback.  It kicked back so hard, he tripped and fell  out of his dad's 20-story window.  (HISSES)  By the time he hit the ground, his head opened up  like one of those Gallagher watermelons.  All this commotion stirred awake his twin brother, Clyde,  who, as he told it to me, was in his bedroom  catching some Zs when all this went down.  By the time he got his bearings,  he was immediately arrested for the double homicide  of his brother and father,  being the weapon was in his name.  And how do you know Clyde?  He was my cellmate.  This place made him crazy.  He thinks it's cursed.  (WHISPERING) Yeah. No shit, Sherlock.  Before I left the clink, he gave me the keys to the joint  and made me swear to burn it down  before it caused any more ruckus.  He swears it's haunted  believes it is the nexus of all evil in the universe.  You buy into any of this shit?  F no, man.  I'm too broke to be superstitious.  In a way, all this hocus-pocus keeps things clean  for whatever it is you need to do.  The public records are in limbo.  People down in county don't even want to touch the place.  I'm siphoning electricity from the grid.  As far as anyone's concerned, it don't exist.  Now, on the market, this joint would run you  about 5 grand a month, but since it's you,  I'll give it to your guy for half.  Come on, Mobley, don't give me that look, man.  You know how hard it is for an ex-con to get a job.  Money's tight,  especially with my mom's cataracts.  The bills are adding up.  I'm not here to rent from you, Romero.  I want you to work with us.  Oh, hell no, man. I just got out.  I ain't trying to go back no time soon.  Just hear my guy out, okay?  We need a phreaker.  Now, you know you're the best in the game.  Don't try to sweet-talk me, motherf er.  I don't need you to tell me who's the best in the game.  I invented the shit, okay?  Now, either you're renting, or I'm finding somebody else,  but I cannot get mixed up in whatever it is you're doing.  Man, this is a chance to get back at the system  that stole six years of your life.  This is a game changer, man.  Who's this guy, again?  He's, uh he's a little weird.  But, uh, he's gonna love this place.  He's got a thing for Coney Island.  You'll like him.  Actually, you'll hate him.  But he's a genius.  Best coder I've ever met.  And he wants to meet you.  How much?  Aw, don't smile. I ain't said yes yet.  Money's gonna be the deciding factor in all this,  and it's gonna need to be a whole lot to bring me back in.  That's the thing, man.  In a way,  this pays everything.  (DUSTY SPRINGFIELD'S "YOU DON' HAVE TO SAY YOU LOVE ME")  (DRAMATIC MUSIC)  What happened to the U and the N?  Oh, that?  That's a story for another time.    When I said   I needed you   You said you would always stay   It wasn't me who changed   But you   And now you've gone away     Left alone with just   A memory   Life seems dead and so unreal   All that's left   Is loneliness   There's nothing left to feel   You don't have to say you love me   Just be close at hand   Panic. Here it comes again.  Remember?  That sudden sensation of fear,  overwhelming fear,  burrowing its way underneath my brain,  making itself at home  You don't have to say you love me   Nesting  Just be close at hand   You don't have to stay forever   I will understand   Screaming in my mind.  Believe me   Believe me   Believe me   (STATIC CRACKLING)  It's good to hear your voice.  Where are you?  (FOREBODING MUSIC)  Not yet where I'm supposed to be.  But soon, very soon.  Protestors are taking to the street in massive numbers,  and police and community leaders  are at a loss as to what to do at this point,  citing that  And where is that?  I don't think that's a good idea.  You think someone's listening?  Don't tell me you're having second thoughts.  You don't want me to have to worry about you.  I need to know what's going on.  It's not safe.  I wish it were.  Oh, how I wish.  How I wish.  I think about you a lot, Elliot.  I think about that night  when we became gods.  That night  I want to know what happened.  (SUSPENSEFUL MUSIC)  Tell me what happened.  Like he said, it's not safe,  not on the phone.  I'm not gonna let you make me a prisoner  of my own paranoia again.  If you're not paranoid,  you need me more than you think you do.  We had a deal.  You wanted to talk to him.  I delivered.  It's not my fault he's loony tunes.  He really expects me to believe this?  Did we really talk to the most wanted man on the planet?  Why the f are you asking them?  You heard him. You talked to him.  I talk to you too.  (SCOFFS) What do you want, huh?  We had a deal. I delivered!  (BANG) What more do you want?  What I've always wanted:  for the panic to finally stop.  Shocking news from last night,  Gideon Goddard, owner and CEO of Allsafe Cybersecurity,  considered ground zero for the Five/Nine attacks,  was shot dead at a bar in Manhattan.  The suspected murderer surrendered at the scene.  The alleged gunman,  whose name has yet to be released  But it won't.  Described by law enforcement sources  as disgruntled, unemployed,  and having a history of mental illness.  Just don't know why you can't send me a new one.  You ain't even with E Corp.  Well, I guess I never figured  you were all in bed together like that.  How am I supposed to pay the bills  if my autopay stopped working?  (KNOCKING AT DOOR)  Okay, somebody's at the door.  Guess I got to call you back.  Uh-huh, like you give a shit.  - (KNOCKING AT DOOR) - Door's open.  Come on in.  Hi, Mrs. Romero.  Oh.  I don't know where he at.  Ain't seen him for a bit.  Probably downstairs.  You know how he is.  Just comes and goes, goes and comes.  (PEOPLE CHANTING INDISTINCTLY ON TV)  Rome!  Yo, Rome!  Where you at, man?  Rome?  (SNIFFS) Whoa.  What the f is that smell, man?  Rome?  (FOREBODING MUSIC)    Rome?  (OMINOUS MUSIC)    (WHISPERING) Shit.  (INDISTINCT CHATTER ON TV)  (DIALYSIS MACHINE BEEPING)  But has become a citywide epidemic for families as well.  Now let's check in with Jessie  for our five borough weather report.  Oh, thank you, Chris. I wish I could tell you  Got those at Mel's.  (CHUCKLES) Beautiful, huh?  Sad to see his shop shut down.  Mm.  Mmm.  Was gonna leave it to his nephew too.  Kid with the burnt face.  You know what I'm talking about?  What's his name?  Mm.  Can't think of it.  Anyway, with everything going on with the trucking,  Mel says fresh deliveries just aren't coming through.  'Sides, now that the allowance  is down to just $50 a day,  no one's spending it on flowers.  Hmm.  I swear, the only way I'm getting through this  is having breakfast with you.  Mets won again.  It's gonna be their year.  Yeah, I know.  I know, I know, I know, I know.  Ready, y'all?  (INDISTINCT CHATTER)  Pick up.  Ah, damn. Come on.  Can't never do it with that shit!  (INDISTINCT CHATTER)  Take it easy with that dosage, cuz.  I ain't your keeper, and I damn straight  ain't gonna be your reaper neither, you dig?  - Let's go! - Come on!  What problem you trying to solve anyway, man?  How do I tell him that someone I cared about died?  I'm fine.  You know, that's what you always saying, man.  So we're back to the morphine?  Don't listen, man.  What do you think that's going to accomplish, exactly?  It's not morphine.  It's Adderall.  This is your fault.  All of it.  Now it's time to get rid of you.  (DRAMATIC MUSIC)    When a computer gets hit with a kernel panic,  there's only so much you can do.  An internal fatal error  is hard to recover from.  I mean, listen to that:  internal fatal error.  Sounds pretty fucking bad, you ask me.  But OD'ing on Adderall was finally my way  of controlling him.    Do you have a moment, Mr. Alderson?  Is this the FBI?  Did Gideon rat me out?  Come on!  Help!  Help!  No! No!  (MUFFLED SCREAMING)    (PANTING)  (SINGING OPERATICALLY IN FOREIGN LANGUAGE)    This is a New Lots Avenue-bound four train.  (RADIO STATIC CRACKLES)  (INDISTINCT POLICE RADIO CHATTER)  (BRAKES SCREECHING)  (HISSING)  This is a Brooklyn-bound two express train.  Next stop is DeKalb Avenue.  (SINGING OPERATICALLY)  Stand clear of the closing doors, please.  (ELECTRONIC CHIME)  (SINGING OPERATICALLY)  Elliot and I both warned you  it was a liability he sold drugs.  God damn it.  Why are you being such an asshole?  He's dead.  Did anyone see you?  Just his mom.  What did you want me to do?  She was upstairs.  F, Darlene.  What did we do?  (FOREBODING MUSIC)    (GRUNTING)    (GASPS)    (GASPS)  (PANTING)  Where am I?  (SHOUTING) Where am I?    What are you doing?  What's that for?  What's that for?  (OMINOUS MUSIC)    No, no, wait.    No.  No!  No! I have them! No!  (MUFFLED SCREAMING)    (GAGGING)  (DRAMATIC ORCHESTRAL MUSIC)    (VOMITING)    That's it.  Get that Adderall out of your system.  Good boy.  That's it, get those shitty pills  out of your system.  (SPUTTERING)  (PANTING)    I have burrowed underneath your brain.  I am nested there.  I am the scream in your mind.  You will cooperate, my son.  I will make you, because I own you!  Argh!    (GRUNTS)    I will not be owned.  First, I want to offer my condolences.  Terrible news about your old boss.  I hear he was a good man.  Very unfortunate when bad things happen to good people.  Thank you, sir.  I've been pretty broken up about it.  Second, this interview that you've set up,  it's all wrong.  I want to do Fox instead of Bloomberg.  No preinterview, and I want final approval  of all questions beforehand.  I'm on it.  Mr. Price?  I think this is a mistake.  Frankly, Fox isn't where we should be right now.  Bloomberg is where investors get their business news,  and if our goal is to reassure them  Sit down.  (SIGHS)  Have you ever had dinner at Fidelio's?  No.  I haven't.  Used to be a dive bar years ago.  It's since turned into one of the nicest restaurants  in the city.  I know the chef.  He's very good.  I'll have Marcel make a reservation.  You've never had semifreddo  until you've had it there.  Okay.  I'll arrange a car to pick you up.  Saturday, 8:00.  And, uh, yes, you're right.  Bloomberg it's more appropriate.  We'll stick with that.  Thank you, sir.  I've noticed you always look at that  before you leave my office.  Perhaps you find it as fascinating as I do  How a man can change the whole world  with a bullet in the right place.  (LIVELY ORCHESTRAL MUSIC)  Oh, no, what does that say?    (LAUGHING)  Don't fall over.    You okay? You okay?    I don't want to go to sleep another night  not knowing you're not gonna be my wife.    (LAUGHS)  Oh, my God.    Emilia, will you marry me?    Next on "Million Dollar Listing New York"  Am I gonna be dealing with you  Alexa, what time is it?  (ELECTRONIC VOICE) It is 4:03 a.m.  That's it, not a penny more.  Whatever she says goes.  (SIGHS)  (THE HIGHWAYMEN'S "HIGHWAYMAN")  (ENERGETIC INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC)    I was a highwayman   Along the coach roads I did ride     With sword and pistol by my side     Many a young maid lost her baubles to my trade     Many a soldier shed his lifeblood on my blade     The bastards hung me in the spring of '25     But I am still alive     I was a sailor   I was born upon the tide   (SIGHS) Alexa, stop.  And with the sea I did   (MUSIC STOPS)  (ELECTRONIC BEEPING)  (WHIRRING)  (SNEEZES)  Whew, sorry. Something's going around.  Victim's mother's back at the station.  (SNIFFS) Didn't get much from her.  Down here.  (INDISTINCT POLICE RADIO CHATTER)  (SNIFFLING)  All we got on the victim so far is,  he's a known hacker with a record.  Got busted in '08.  Served six years for some small-time computer fraud stuff.  (COUGHING)  It's okay. I got gloves on.  Well, it doesn't matter much if you sneeze  (SNEEZES)  On them. Okay.  Tell you what, why don't you hold this still?  We're still looking, but it looks like he only  printed out these three sheets from the full FBI roster.  (SNIFFS AND GRUNTS)  (COUGHS)  We contacted everyone here at the New York office.  You're the first to respond.  It doesn't mean much.  Thousands of FBI names and contact details  were leaked a few months back.  Every hacker has this.  What are they doing?  Uh, it's Forensics.  We found his desktop unlocked.  Uh, once we're done analyzing it,  we'll send a full report.  Did you have them check if the ports were modified at all  before using them?  (ELECTRICITY CRACKLING)  - Whoa! - Shit!  Fire extinguisher.  (BANGING, INDISTINCT CHATTER)  (SIGHS) Well (CHUCKLES)  (COUGHING)  Here's my card in case you find anything else.  Thanks again for calling me.  I'd really talk to your doctor about getting a Z-Pak.  You really shouldn't be out here infecting your whole unit.  It's very irresponsible of you.  (IMITATING AIRPLANE ZOOMING)      According to the police report,  there was no sign of a robbery.  Someone was there  with the sole purpose of offing him.  You're jumping to conclusions.  What about that Allsafe guy?  That's two murders in a row  associated with this hack.  They caught the guy.  It was just some wack-job.  Besides, I don't really care discussing this with you,  given how easily you forgot about what we started.  What, because I don't care for stupid high jinks  like burning money in the middle of a park?  That stupid high jinks  is killing public confidence in E Corp,  which is exactly what we need to be doing right now.  We might be getting executed by the Dark Army,  and this is what you'd rather be discussing?  It's not the Dark Army.  They don't know Romero  or the two of you.  They only communicate through me,  and I sure as shit didn't tell them anything.  You're not the only person they've talked to.  He wouldn't do that.  The state Elliot's in, we don't know  (BANG)  Don't say what you're thinking.  You don't want to listen to reason,  that's on you.  But I'm taking off.  I'm not sticking around to be next.  I'm gonna stay with my buddy in Arizona.  If they wanted us dead, we'd be dead already.  Besides, if you're just gonna end up in Arizona,  then being dead isn't that much of a downgrade.  Ha-ha.  Then what do you suggest we do, then?  I'll talk to Elliot.  I'll hit you both when I get more info.  Until then,  stop spazzing  And be cool.  (SIGHS)  I don't trust her  or her crazy-ass brother.  You know he tried to pull a gun on Romero?  Think about it, Trenton.  They're the only two that talked to the Dark Army.  Now they're trying to tell us the Dark Army isn't involved.  What are you saying?  I'm saying we just committed the crime of the century,  and they're trying to cover their tracks.  And right now, we're the tracks.  A lot of life is a balancing act.  We're all just doing our best,  tightrope walking above that pit of ungodly pain  that's daring us to trip up.  Take money and health.  One isn't very useful without the other, you know?  Case in point:  even though you've been paid handsomely,  the physical condition you're in right now  kind of cancels that out.  And I'd like to say upfront  I'm very sorry this happened to you.  The guys I deal with, they can be ruthless.  Me, I'm more of a positive reinforcement kind of guy.  You know, I just happen to think it's more productive.  (SOBBING)  Nevertheless, that don't change what's been done to you.  The person who did this  will get proportionate retribution.  On that tip, I still need you to fix this thing for me.  Our site's been down way too long.  Good news is, once you bring it back up,  you will get your money,  and, in time, God willing,  your health.  That's all I want to do here  help put your life back in balance.  They keep emptying the Bitcoin wallets,  and the server keeps crashing.  I don't know how to stop it.  I only know basic network security measures.  You have to find someone who  who can migrate the site to another,  more secure location  and set up a system of hot and cold wallets.  Just  (PENSIVE PIANO MUSIC)  Please    (WHISPERING) Please.  I can't I can't figure it out.  (SOBBING)    I could try to convince him again.  Just because you beat a man's face to a pulp  don't mean he gonna know what he don't.  We're not animals.  We need to find someone who can do that migration thing  he keep talking about.  (SIGHS)  This heat wave is a motherf er.  What's the high supposed to be today?    What you looking at me for?  Turn on the goddamn weather station, let's go.    Can I tell you a secret?  It's been three days since I slept.  I'm up to about 200 milligrams now.  But that's not the secret.  He's gone.  You heard me.  He's gone.  (UPBEAT MUSIC)    It was so simple.  I'm way more aware now.  I'm way more focused.  And I'm feeling 100%.    (ELECTRONIC BEEP AND CHIME)  He's gone. He's gone.  He's gone.  The Adderall is working,  and f if this drug doesn't feel good.    I can even handle talking with people.  Yo, bro, he's like  Even Leon's stupid "Seinfeld" philosophy  is starting to sound fascinating.  So so he just he just  he just ran out of the party,  pushing old people aside?  That's so funny. Was there even a fire?  I mean, that's classic George, am I right?  I don't like this, bro.    Why haven't I done this before?  Damn, these dishes look immaculate.  (ELECTRONIC DING)    I'm pretty sure I even found God.  - (ELECTRONIC BUZZING) - ALL: Amen!  - Amen! - (ELECTRONIC BUZZ)  Amen, Amen, Amen!  Amen, Amen, Amen, Amen!  Amen! Amen!  Even the dumb basketball game is enthralling.  The ball goes into a hoop.  Of course.  Whoo!  Slam dunk!  We can finally be back to normal.  It'll just be me and you, my friend.  We'll dine together.  - (TAPE SQUEALING) - Maybe I'll read to you.  Or we'll just talk.  But the point is,  he's gone,  and now it's just us.  You're not buying any of this either.  Are you?  (FOREBODING MUSIC)    It was feeling good  for a few days.  It really was,  wasn't it?  But this is the fifth day of not sleeping,  I think.  Fifth  Isn't that a funny word?  Shit.  There it is again.  (STATIC SCRATCHING)  The overwhelming fear building,  the burrowing,  the nesting,  the scream.  (STATIC CRACKLING)  Stoob Dnalamit Gniraew eb Egroeg.  Dna gnihtyreve dna ogol eht htiw,  sdrawkcab edosipe elohw eht yalp yehT "layarteB ehT."  Eb ot tog sah tsepod eht.  I know, I know, Leon's talking backwards.  This isn't good.    (STATIC SCRATCHING, ELECTRONIC BEEPING)  Yeah, I know.  That's very weird too.  (ELECTRONIC BEEPING AND BUZZING)  (OMINOUS MUSIC)    My internal fatal error  (ELECTRONIC BEEPING)  From which my system cannot safely recover.  (ELECTRONIC BEEPING)  (HIGH-PITCHED RINGING, ELECTRONIC BEEPING)  (HIGH-PITCHED RINGING, THUDDING)  Kernel panic.  Day number six without sleep.  (EERIE MUSIC)  I'm crashing.    Next, my consciousness will go.  (MUSIC INTENSIFYING)    The panic isn't settling in anymore.  It's just there.  The scream in my mind is coming back.    (SIGHING)  You are likable.  (RELAXED FUNK MUSIC)  You are attractive.    You are beautiful.    CROWD: Revolution!  Revolution!  - What is that solution? - CROWD: Revolution!  Phillip Price, please.  Your party's here.  Do you want me to show you to the table?    Say the word   Say the word   (WOMEN VOCALIZING)    (MEN AND WOMEN VOCALIZING)    If you love   Love me, babe   Any   Angela.  Yes, come. Please, please.  I'd like you to meet two of your colleagues.  Gentlemen, introduce yourselves.  Saul Weinberg,  managing director of operations.  Hi. Angela. It's nice to meet you.  Jim Chutney, SVP of B.A.  Angela.  Phillip Price, master of the universe.  (ALL CHUCKLING)  (LIGHT PIANO MUSIC)  All right.  (WHISPERING INDISTINCTLY)  (GROANS)  Yes.  Yes, yes, yes, yes.  Because of the situation,  you have to pay upfront now.  (GRUNTS)  Well, a toast.  May new relationships  lead to new opportunities.      (PANTING)  Oh, God.  Alexa, when is the end of the world?  Unless it collides with a very large rock  or a future technology goes very wrong indeed,  Earth is most likely to be destroyed  when the sun swells into a red giant  in several billion years' time.  Right.  (ELECTRONIC BEEPING)  (WHIRRING)  (EERIE MUSIC)    I know you you want me to talk about myself,  but I don't  The Adderall's almost out of my system.  With that, sleep will return.  Any second now, he's gonna come back,  and my mind will be under siege again.  This isn't something, like, I-I  Mr. Robot has become my god,  and like all gods,  their madness takes you prisoner.  There was this  I guess I couldn't avoid Gideon's death after all.  My dam of guilt is finally cracking.  I want to cry, but I'm so high that I can't.  There was an Indian man working behind the counter,  and I made fun of his accent.  (IMITATING INDIAN ACCENT) And talk like this.  "Hello, how you doing?"  (IN NORMAL VOICE) And one day, he stood up for himself.  (IMITATING INDIAN ACCENT) "Sir, I must ask you to leave."  (IN NORMAL VOICE) And something snapped in me,  and I just popped him in the face.  I saw red, man.  I just I just kept punching him and punching him.  And I hated him so much.  He was Indian.  (CRYING)  But it was raining.  There was a thunderstorm,  and I remember stepping outside.  And the clouds parted,  and the sun came out.  And I knew that that was God  showing up for me in that moment.  (CRYING)  He forgave me.  Jesus loves you.  And this was clearly just a test.  ALL: Amen.  Elliot, would you like to share?  No, man.  My system's hung.  God can help you.  Is that what God does?  He helps?  Tell me,  why didn't God help my innocent friend  who died for no reason  while the guilty roam free?  Okay, fine.  Forget the one-offs.  How about the countless wars  declared in his name?  Okay, fine.  Let's skip the random, meaningless murder for a second,  shall we?  How about the racist,  sexist, phobia soup  we've all been drowning in because of him?  (PENSIVE MUSIC)  And I'm not just talking about Jesus.  I'm talking about all organized religion  exclusive groups  created to manage control,  a dealer getting people hooked  on the drug of hope,  his followers nothing but addicts  who want their hit of bullshit  to keep their their dopamine of ignorance,  addicts afraid to believe the truth  that there is no order,  there's no power,  that all religions are just  metastasizing mind worms  meant to divide us  so it's easier to rule us  by the charlatans that want to run us.    All we are to them are paying fanboys  of their poorly written sci-fi franchise.    (CHUCKLING)  If I don't listen to my imaginary friend,  why the f should I listen to yours?    People think their worship's  some key to happiness.  That's just how he owns you.    Even I'm not crazy enough  to believe that distortion of reality.    So f God.    He's not a good enough scapegoat for me.    Please tell me I didn't say all of that out loud.    Shit. I did.  (FOREBODING MUSIC)    (DOOR BANGS)  (LAUGHTER)  (LIGHT PIANO MUSIC)    (CLEARS THROAT)  Angela and I are going to have one more drink.  Oh, of course.  Of course.  Thank you for dinner, Phillip.  Mm-hmm.  Don't get up.  It was good to have met you.  Pleasure meeting you, Angela.  Now remember, come see us anytime.  We'll have lunch.  On you. (LAUGHING)  (SIGHS)  So  did you enjoy the semifreddo?  Was it all I promised?  Yes.  Excellent!  Absolutely. It was delicious.  Good.  And good company.  Jim's been with us for 27 years.  He's a Harvard guy lives upstate.  Three kids two in college, one in high school.  Company man through and through.  He's the reason we do our Toys for Tots program.  And Saul is the chair  of our nonprofit arm.  Good man as well.  He has grandkids, so he's  he's a little ahead in the family department.  Oh, and another thing they have in common:  they were both in the room with Colby  when they made that grave error  covering up the leak in your hometown.  Hmm.  Ordinary men  Capable of extraordinary things.  Our CFO has discovered that within the last two years,  both Jim and Saul have been engaged in some  nasty insider trading.  Thick as thieves, these two.  They like to buddy up on their white-collar crimes  a regular Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.  There's enough evidence in there  to put them away for years.  I should get home.  Your car will be out front.  Whatever you're doing, I don't trust it.  You're panicking right now.  I understand.  It's a big decision you're making,  because these men,  their lives will be destroyed.  But the minute you remove emotion from this  You'll do just fine.  (INDISTINCT CHATTER)  Heard you had an interesting night.  Chaplain's an old friend.  I threw it out for a reason.  I figured you might want it  for down the road.  Trust me, I've been there.  (CLEARS THROAT)  Five years,  seven months, three weeks,  and two days ago,  my wife passed away.  A few weeks of being frozen in my own grief,  I woke up one morning,  fixed myself breakfast like I normally do,  plugged myself into my dialysis machine  like I normally do,  and started talking  out loud.  For a second, I thought I was crazy.  Moved on with the day.  Then the next day, I did it again  talked out loud  and the next.  And then I realized who I was talking to.  Why are you telling me all of this?  'Cause you and me  are a lot more alike than you think, Elliot.  (KNOCKING ON THE DOOR)  (KNOCKING ON THE DOOR)  Are you crazy?  How the hell you knocking on my door this early?  I'm sorry, Mrs. Romero.  I'm Dominique DiPierro with the FBI.  I'm assisting Homicide on your son's case.  I know it's early, but I just had a few more questions  about your son's murder.  I already talked to the police!  I know the cops took all your joints.  I looked through your files.  I also know you have arthritis  and probably can't roll 'em yourself,  so I'm guessing your son did.  I can help roll 'em for you if you'd like.  Used to do it all the time for my kid brother  back in high school.  He always told me I was pretty bomb at it.  (DOOR CLICKS OPEN)  All right!  You can come on in.  Mmm.  Yeah, it's tight.  Not perfect,  but definitely doable.  Yeah, it's not as fat as my dear Leslie's.  That boy wasn't around much,  but he was always doing for me.  Always.  God bless him.  I see you're moving out.  Ah, yeah.  I can't stay here no more.  I raised Leslie here,  Huh. Too many memories here.  Did he go anywhere or do anything suspicious?  Any small detail could help.  Well, he be fooling around with those computers.  You guys know that.  He always did that since he was little.  I never understood it.  Gobbledygook, if you ask me.  Did he have any friends?  Did anyone ever come to the house?  Friends?  Leslie didn't have no friends,  except that chubby boy.  (COUGHING)  You mind if you get me  grab me a glass of water?  Should be some in the boxes.  Oh, yeah, of course.  That's right, you told the cops someone did come,  but you didn't see him, right?  Nope, not with these cataracts.  I can barely make you out from my cat.  Where is that thing, anyway?  Probably ran off like everyone else.  (TENSE MUSIC)  Did he say his name?  Have you seen him before?  Nope.  My mind was dancing in the clouds.  All I know is, I can't live here no more.    Now that I don't owe anymore on the place,  maybe I can just rent it.  Yeah. Man.  Besides, I need the money.    $19 million.  (CHEERS AND APPLAUSE ON TV)  (DRAMATIC MUSIC)    What do I do?  Why did you start writing that journal in the first place?  I thought it was the right answer.  The right answer to what?  Controlling my life.  (SIGHS) My wife  well, she drove her car that day.  She did everything right.  She always wore her seat belt,  hands at 10:00 and 2:00.  She was the most perfect driver I'd ever met.  (LAUGHING) It was it was annoying.  She stayed in the lines.  Never went above or below the speed limit.  Stopped at traffic signs.  She followed every rule.  And then one day, none of that mattered.  Control is about as real  as a one-legged unicorn taking a leak  at the end of a double rainbow.  Then what do we have?  You know that bullshit people say about how  when you fall,  you got to get up?  I reject that shit, man.  You know why?  The whole thing is a fall.  It can't help but be.  A perpetual state of grasping in the dark.  It's not about getting up.  It's about stumbling,  stumbling in the right direction.  It's the only true way to move forward.  Whoever it is you wrote about in your journal,  do you still see him?  I can tell the person you're writing about  meant something to you.  Sometimes he takes over?  That's why you don't remember things?  I shouldn't have come.  I don't want to talk about this.  Yes, you do.  'Cause you're smart enough to know  that keeping this inside  isn't going to last.  You play chess?  I've been looking for a good adversary.  Want to play?  (SOMBER MUSIC)    What do you think?  Is Ray right?    Maybe it's not about avoiding the crash.    But it's about setting a breakpoint  to find the flaw in the code,  fix it, and carry on  until we hit the next flaw  the quest to keep going,  to always fight for footing.    Maybe we're all just stumbling from the right questions  to the wrong answers    Or from the right answers to the wrong questions.  It doesn't matter where you go  or where you come from,  as long as you keep stumbling.    Maybe that's all it takes.  Maybe that's as good as it gets.    You got to be fucking kidding me.  (MUSIC SWELLS)  (SURF CRASHING, SEAGULLS SQUAWKING)
1   You guys are acting like  we're walking towards doomsday here.  It does say, "End of the world party."  (CROWD CHANTING)  - He's dead. - Did anyone see you?  We started a movement!  Get back on a terminal now!  We need to find someone who can do that  migration thing he keep talking about.  You play chess?  I'm looking for a good adversary.  Sharon, how do you not blow your brains out  being married to him?  Do you want to go have a drink?  We're not to be seen together  You've been parked in the lot for the past two days.  How long have you been asleep?  There she is a ray of sunshine  in the dark void of my existence.  Washington Township toxic waste scandal.  You want to take Internet gossip to federal court  and throw it at the strongest conglomerate  in the history of civilization.  Jim and Saul were both in the room with Colby  covering up the leak in your hometown.  Their lives will be destroyed.  The minute you remove emotion from this,  you'll do just fine.  (KNOCKING AT DOOR)  (KNOCKING AT DOOR)  (KNOCKING AT DOOR)  (LIGHT TAPPING AT DOOR)  (BANGING AT DOOR)  Trick-or-treat?  Found it in a 99¢ shop in Chinatown.  I didn't know they actually made a mask  from that movie, did you?  When'd you get back to the city?  Well, it's Halloween.  Seeing as though that used to be our thing,  I thought I'd hit you up.  "Great, Darlene, haven't seen you in a long time either.  I'd love to hang out."  Next time you should call first.  I'm going out.  (LAUGHS) Come on.  You don't go out.  I don't mean that in a cunty way.  I just mean, you know,  you're you.  Look, if this is you needing a place to stay,  then you can crash on the couch.  Init 1.  I wouldn't say that if I wasn't being serious.  Please.  Hang out with me tonight.  For real. I need this.  Do you have to wear that grody old mask?  - It's totally nasty. - It's father's.  He wore it on his yacht five New Years ago.  We were a mile off Catalina?  Duh, it was the night uncle Conrad threw himself overboard.  All because Dad got the business.  Boo-hoo.  I mean, clearly what the film is doing is debunking the notion  that American society is classless.  Meritocracy my ass.  Long live the oligarchy!  Whatever, can you just take the mask off?  It's freaking me out.  God.  It's like us and the three seeders are the only idiots  to actually watch this thing growing up.  This is definitely the root  of all our psychological dysfunction.  - Fashionably late. - Screw that.  I hate our friends.  You still having them?  Why is that always your go-to with me?  I mean, trust me, in this day and age,  it's sicker not having panic attacks.  Since when did pretending everything's okay  suddenly become the almighty norm?  (ROCK MUSIC)  I can write you a check.    Okay, I don't normally say this,  but I have got to Instagram this.  People need to know this movie exists.  (SCREAMING)  I'm really into papadam these days.  What about you? You want to do Indian?  I hacked Postmates' proxy that supports the APN  for my boyfriend's cell carrier.  Now it does a URL rewrite and sends every postmates.com  request to my affiliate link,  meaning I get $10 coupons  every time a sucker orders anything.  What's your deal?  That lame infosec gig scared you straight?  No, man.  Got fired.  Now I'm seeing a shrink.  Hold the fuck up.  What does a shrink have to do with this?  I was on this project, pen testing.  Kept finding holes in the system.  Wasn't my fault they sucked, but it was my job  to keep hacking till it was hacker-proof.  I think it was the night of Memorial Day weekend.  Everybody wanted to go home  to their parties, their clubs,  their vacations.  But they couldn't.  Because of me.  So when they couldn't lock down the servers  they decided to lock down my ass instead,  in the server room.  After a few hours, I fell asleep.  Woke up.  All the servers in the room were destroyed.  I didn't remember doing it.  Judge made me go to therapy  for anger management.  Guess it's official.  I'm crazy.  You want to know who's crazy?  Those Wall Street psychos.  Okay? You'll find something better.  Angela's trying to hook me up with a job at Allsafe.  You see Mom?  Not really. You?  Fuck no.  She still shits on Dad every time I talk to her.  I wish I remembered him better.  You want to see something?  (DRAMATIC MUSIC)    Holy shit.  Is this    Put it on.  Put it on.    Oh, yeah okay, wait.    Put this on too.    Why?  Because I asked you to.    (LAUGHS)  Maybe I should take the job at Allsafe.  I could be a Trojan horse.    Be a good way to take them down.  Who?    Evil Corp.    Okay. (LAUGHING)    I can't tell if you're joking behind that mask.    With the right access,  install the right malware    Trash their backups,  we could corrupt all their data.  I bet it wouldn't even be that hard.  No.  No, the hard part would be after,  during the fallout.  That's the key.  The follow through.  They'd have an opportunity to reset,  rebuild their database.  We couldn't let them.  It'd be tempting to lay off them afterwards,  but that's when you have to go in for more.  The public's confidence in them  would have to be completely destroyed  in order to really finish them off.    That's the only way it would work.    Dude, you're freaking me out.    I mean, don't get me wrong.  Taking them down would  Change the world.    Is this something you've actually thought about?    You there?  (DRAMATIC ORCHESTRAL SWELL)   (HAUNTING CHORAL MUSIC)    God.  I will never understand why you did this.  Asking for help was never Darlene's strong suit.  But then again, is it anyone's?  An admission of weakness.  But you can't avoid the simple truth.  The only way to patch a vulnerability  is by exposing it first.  It's good for me here.  Better than back at my place.  It's cool.  I mean, I don't get it,  but I don't have to.  The flip side being that exposing a vulnerability  leaves you open for an exploit.  I have to tell you something.  It's pretty fucking metal though,  and I don't know if you're gonna be able to deal  after the whole Gideon thing.  I know what you've been doing, Darlene.  I see the news.  That's not even the half of it.  You need to stop.  It's too dangerous.  Don't give me that.  The things we're doing, Elliot  the things I'm doing to complete our mission  you'd be proud if you only knew.  We have something big planned for the bailout vote in D.C.  No.  No more.  We're on the other side of something  we never signed up for.  My boss was killed.  I mean, what did you guys expect  was gonna happen, exactly?  You thought everything was gonna be hunky-fucking-dory?  They'd go quietly into the night?  You said it yourself before we even started.  The hard part would be after, not the during or before.  (SOMBER MUSIC)    That wasn't me.    That was him.    Well, then maybe I need him right now,  because what I'm seeing in front of me  isn't helping.  She's not telling me something.  She wants my help,  but she's not being honest about what.  This is what she does.  I mean, the things we're doing, Elliot  This is her default.    (TENSE MUSIC)  All right, I'm gonna show you something in here first.    Found it kind of curious he only printed out  a few pages of the FBI roster.  Turned out there was a name on each page  from the New York office, including me.  Common thread among them  was that we all interviewed Gideon Goddard.  Still don't know what it means.    They were definitely stealing power.  They found a cable running from a municipal power source.  We're still looking into Internet.    The whole party was on social media.  You really like this place for our guys?  An arcade with the goddamn sign outside?  They're hackers. Brazen.  They believe in hiding in plain sight.  This is just  too stupid.  Well, what does that say about us, then,  that we're just now finding it?  We're bringing in all the people from these photos,  cross-checking all social media, Facebook, Twitter.  So they threw a party. So what?  Everyone threw one of these  "end of the world" parties that night.  What about the flyer?  We checked on the DJ name, Mobley.  Appears to be a DJ out in Vegas.  Just your average, middle-of-the-road player.  Nobody of note.  He was doing a show out there at Caesar's that night.  It checks. I'm not sure of the connection.  Why don't you just break it down for us, Dom?  What hard evidence do we actually have here?  Found this tucked behind  that "Mallard Murder" game over there.  How do you know no one followed you?  They think I'm in a yoga class.  Trust me.  He's very good at this.  This is no way to live.  They keep asking me questions,  over and over.  They don't stop coming back.  I promise you. You're safe.  I don't feel it.  I don't feel it.  I should have never agreed to this.  Kareem, tell me what this is really about.  I've paid you well every week.  What good is that to me if I'm dead, huh?  Look what happened to the Allsafe guy.  They could kill me too!  I should have never got mixed up with you.  I should have just came clean from the jump.  My husband will return soon,  and this will all be over.  Listen.  I'ma keep telling your story, all right?  But if shit goes down and I get busted,  I'm not gonna get locked up.  You feel me?  They lowered the daily allowance to 50 bucks a day.  That's no way to live; I can't live like that.  (SIGHS)  Speak.  Ma'am, we're running low on funds.  I don't know how much longer we can afford.  E Corp still hasn't released your husband's  severance package.  The FBI was specifically told not  to put a hold on any of that money  It's not the FBI, ma'am.  We can't afford to keep this guy quiet.  I'm done with this topic.  I place myself in alignment with the things I want.  I place myself in alignment with the things I want.  (SOOTHING MUSIC)  (MOUTHING WORDS)  I dissolve all false messages.  I dissolve all false messages.    My beliefs create my own reality.  My beliefs create my own reality.    All of my dreams are coming true right now.  All of my dreams are coming true right now.  (CHESS PIECE THUNKS)  Hmm.  Not gonna lie.  You could use some practice.  Your move.  You know the definition of insanity?  He clearly doesn't know who he's talking to.  Rather than repeating your mistakes,  you should develop your game a bit.  And you're gonna teach me?  No.  You are.  Take the board.  Play yourself.  Practice.  Who knows, you might beat yourself.  What's the point of that?  Because there's something on your mind.  It's been there since I first met you.  What?  Like I was behind the biggest hack in the world,  which also led to the death of my  I can tell you thinking about it right now.  And it burdens you.  No shit, it burdens me.  But I'm trapped by it, aren't I?  Look, I'm no Catholic, but I do believe in confession.  I've done some dark shit myself,  and it took real  cleansing  to get me through it.  I can help, if you want.  What you say to me stays here.  Talking doesn't really help me.  You can't keep the talking just in your head, bro.  At some point, you got to try to make sense of it.  What if I do tell him  everything about what I did?  Krista doesn't even know that much.  What if I could talk to someone about this?  Maybe he's right.  Maybe it could help.  Finally unburden me from  You tell him anything,  and I will personally find the tallest building in the city  and swan dive off of it.  Ray has a point.  I can't hold this in any longer.  It's eating away at me.  You confess, he goes to the law.  So what?  I'm okay with being on the hook.  I'll own it all.  And maybe it'll even stop Darlene  from doing any more crazy shit.  At this rate, she's gonna end up just like Gideon  What do you think the Dark Army's gonna do  with the knowledge that you're all turncoats?  There's no play here.  You want to unburden yourself?  Go jerk off.  This it's just a road paved  with your dead friends and family.  You need that game a lot more than I thought.  Jim Chutney, SVP of B.A.,  and Saul Weinberg,  managing director of operations,  were arrested in broad daylight at the E Corp offices.  Both men  Guys like this, they work in long games.  I gave you information he gave me,  and the next day you had these guys arrested,  which means at every move,  he has followed through on exactly what he's offered.  He's given me everything I wanted.  I have a nice apartment, a nice job.  He had no leverage against me before,  so he created it.  So you're saying everything he's been doing is  so that he can use it against you?  What about all that stuff you said about them valuing you?  You're the one that thought it was suspicious  that they offered me a job in the first place.  I am giving you an explanation.  He's trying to negotiate.  If he's creating leverage,  it means that he needs something from me.  The drafts of the settlement negotiations did you pull them?  Let's look at them together.  There might be something in there that we're missing.  I don't trust those scam artists  at E Corp's risk management division  any more than you do, so I can assure you if there  is something suspicious, our attorneys would have  I'm the thing that's missing.  There's something about me in that agreement.  That's why they haven't found it.  You want to settle this thing once and for all?  Hmm?  (DRAMATIC MUSIC)    (SIGHS)  One game.  I'll even let you have the first move.  A game to end all games  between us.  We play,  and the winner takes all.  Winner takes all of what?  (SIGHS HEAVILY)  Us.  You win, you can confess  to the JFK assassination for all I care.  I'll leave and never come back.    What would happen if I lose?  You lose,  I get to be in charge  once and for all,  and you?    What about me?    Remember the night of the hack?  Remember what happened to you?  All I remember is, I woke up in Tyrell Wellick's car  three days later.  And what happened in those three days?    I don't know.  That's what.  The absence of knowing.  Losing time forever.  A deep, black void  that you will never come back from.  No thoughts.  No body.  No memories.  Absolute nothingness.    You're serious?  You think I want this, Elliot?  This futile battle we're in?  Two halves at perpetual war?    I want peace just as much as you do.  Since we can't seem to find any common ground    Let's play for it.    What are you thinking about?  I'm thinking about his offer.  Is he the only person you interact with?  Don't worry.  You're safe.  Yes.  Elliot  do you think I could talk to him?  No.  Why not?  It would legitimize him.  At this point, I think we have to accept the fact  that he is a legitimate existence in your life.  That's giving him too much power.  In order for us to figure this out,  we have to acknowledge  What do you want from me?  You know everything.  You want me to keep repeating myself?  You want me to tell you that I see my dead father?  That I talk to him?  That sometimes I lose time?  That there are gaps in my life  where I don't know what happened?  That I'm losing my mind?  That I didn't even recognize my own sister?  That I don't know how to control this thing?  I don't know how to stop it?  Fine!  (WHISPERS) Yeah.  Fine.  I acknowledge it.  But let's move on to the part where you actually help me.  This game you are agreeing to is dangerous, Elliot.  You are agreeing to destroy a part of yourself,  win or lose,  so yes, this matters  a great deal, actually.  For better or worse, he is a part of you  that makes you you.  Annihilation is not the answer.  Krista's wrong.  Annihilation is always the answer.  We destroy parts of ourselves every day.  We Photoshop our warts away.  We edit the parts we hate about ourselves,  modify the parts we think people hate.  We curate our identity,  carve it, distill it.  Krista's wrong.  Annihilation is all we are.  I fail to see the logic.  Why put all your faith in her when we have other options?  Yes, yes.  We could blow up the whole Western Hemisphere,  but you know me.  I'm old-fashioned.  I always opt for the simpler path.  Occam's razor and all that.  Be that as it may, it is a slower path,  and time is of the essence, Phillip.  I want to remind you that closing the plant  is not an option.  And how many minutes have you allotted  for this phone call?  I didn't start this game.  You did.  I'm being pressured to resign.  Confidence in the market is at an all-time low,  and what are you up to?  You're not doing anything on your end to help.  I'm handling this.  Just like I said I would.  Have you spoken to the administration?  Mm-mm, we're not there yet.  President isn't desperate enough.  We need the pressure to cook a little more.  You assured me that the UN vote would be in full swing.  You're the time master.  You should know that while Rome may have burned in a day,  it wasn't built in one.  This will take time,  painful as that is for you to hear.                          Hello, Scott.  Why the fuck are you in my home?  Your housekeeper let me in.  There seems to be a problem with my husband's severance package.  That sounds like an issue for HR.  Yes.  I've spoken to them already.  Several times, in fact.  They claim they can't release it yet.  Yeah, there seems to be a problem for me, too.  I can't seem to find the person who murdered my wife.  Bureaucracy is a bitch, right?  You want my husband.  I can understand that.  And I would like the money I'm owed.  So why don't we help each other, then?  I'll testify my husband didn't come home  the night of the murder.  I left the party alone  didn't see him till the next day.  I'll agree to that if you release the severance package.  (LAUGHS DRILY)  I need that money.  I have a baby.  Tyrell Wellick's baby gets what it deserves.  Nothing.  (Brook Benton's "Rainy Night in Georgia")    Hoverin' by my suitcase   Tryin' to find a warm place   To spend the night     Heavy rain falling   Seems I hear your voice calling   "It's all right"   - (TIRES SCREECHING) - Whoa!  - Look out! - What the hell?  A rainy night in Georgia     (GARAGE DOOR SLAMS)  A rainy night in Georgia   It seems like it's   Raining all over the world     I feel like it's   Raining all over the world     (INDISTINCT CHATTER)  Taxi cabs and buses passin'   Give me your phone, or I'm walking.  Jesus fucking Christ.  Phone, now!  A distant moaning of a train   Go two blocks up and into The Looking Glass.  Into the night     A rainy night in Georgia   (Chromatics' "Into the Black")  My, my, hey, hey     Such an asshole.  I had to make sure you weren't followed.  What the hell are you talking about?  No one's following me.  The FBI found your arcade.  That doesn't make sense.  - How'd they even know - I don't know.  Maybe it has something to do  with the dead hacker they found the other day?  Yeah, I know about that, too.  Okay, you got to tell me, and tell me right now.  Is this Dark Army?  Look, I can promise you from the communications I've seen  that it's just it's no way that it's them.  There's just nothing in it for 'em.  What's Elliot say about all this?  He doesn't know about Romero.  He's in a fragile state.  We're past fragile, okay?  This shit that we're in has fucking shattered  into a million little pieces.  You got to tell him.  What are you doing here?  I wanted to make sure you were okay.  Oh.  Well, I am the fucking opposite of okay,  so tough shit.  Hey  You want to help?  Be a man and let me be upset, okay?    The king is gone   But he's not forgotten     This is the story of Johnny Rotten     It's better to burn out   There's more.  Than it is to rust   Our contacts found out that Romero was researching the FBI  when he got killed.  You know you're still inside me, right?  You got to understand, Darlene.  It doesn't look good.  The FBI is involved.  It's making the Dark Army nervous.  They think somebody flipped.  Okay, get it together, dude.  No one fucking talked to the FBI.  You can tell your pals to eat a dick, okay?  Now get off already.  Don't be this stupid.  They found your spot.  The spot is fine.  We did a full wipe-down.  They won't find anything.  Yeah, well, they have something,  and Romero must have found out about it.  He had a printout with a roster  of FBI agents on something  called Operation Berenstain.    And it looked top secret,  possibly heavy surveillance.    Shit.    Okay, what? What?  So that's it then?  They know us? We're under surveillance?  No, no, no. I'm not saying that.    I got to leave the city.  Wait, hold on.  If you or anyone in your crew takes off,  that's one way to ensure you get killed.  That will make you look guilty,  and we know the Dark Army's blanket rule:  they think the FBI's even snooping around,  and it gets ugly.  So just stop being a hard-ass for once,  and just let me help you.    How the fuck did this happen?  You seriously asking that?  Do I need to remind you what you did?  They called it the Good Samaritan Law  on the account, like,  you supposed to be helping people  if they're in trouble.  Like it was your duty and whatnot,  and if you didn't then you get arrested.  But yo, not only did the homies do jack shit,  they also laughed at this fat dude  while he was getting mugged,  and I ain't gonna lie that was fucked up,  but it was pretty funny, though.  You staring at this thing. You want to play?  No.  It's not for you.  So who's it for then?  Nobody.  You know, back in the Age of Enlightenment,  motherfuckers used chess  as a means of self-improvement,  'cause there wasn't no Tony Robbins DVDs back then.  This was it.  So what you playing for then?  If there's no who, then what's the what?  What's it for?  Existence.  Dope.  Some high stakes right there.  So what you waiting on?  What?  Do you dream, Elliot?  You scraping so hard  like you ain't ever asked yourself this before.  I said, do you want to be here right now?  And I don't mean, like, here-here,  but I mean here in a cosmic sense, bro.  Like, existence could be beautiful,  or it could be ugly, but that's on you.  How do I know which one's for me?  Dream.  You got to find out the future you're fighting for.  Sometimes you got to close your eyes  and really envision that shit, bro.  If you like it, then it's beautiful.  If you don't?  Then you might as well fade the fuck out right now.  You, me, in Madrid,  walking down Calle Atocha,  sitting in Café Rollerie having a cortado.  I have some friends who have a vineyard on the coast.  They would love you.  Oh, during the harvest, everyone goes there.  It's beautiful that time of the year.  What's wrong?  (SNIFFLES)  Was it something I said?  Madrid.  Do you really think you'll ever afford  you'll ever afford that?  Well, maybe not now,  but, like hey,  once I get my DJ career going, like,  a lot of times  they give you free trips.  Like, for the jobs, and I  I can take you.  Derek, do you know why I'm with you?  Why I'm dating you?  You're a bartender.  You make $15 an hour.  You're never gonna be able to take me to Madrid.  You're never gonna be able to afford to take me anywhere.  (DRAMATIC MUSIC)  You won't be able to give me anything I want out of life.    But I've had all those things before,  and they never made me happy.  That's why I love you.  You're not any of that.  And I don't need you to be anything more than you are.  (SERENE MUSIC)    If I do close my eyes,  what is it that I picture years from now?  Like Leon said,  doesn't one need to understand that  before they're ready to fight for their existence?    How would my future fairy tale unfold?    Will I finally connect with those I deeply care for?    Will I reunite with old friends long gone?    See the ones I love find true happiness?    Maybe this future includes people  I'd never dream of getting close to.    Even make amends with those I have unfairly wronged.    A future that's not so lonely.    A future filled with friends and family.    You'd even be there.    (EXPLOSIONS BOOM DISTANTLY)  (CHEERS AND APPLAUSE)  (BUILDING CRASHING)  (CHEERS AND APPLAUSE)    The world I've always wanted.    And you know what?  I would like very much to fight for it.  In chess, help isn't allowed.  That's the beauty of the game.  You're locked into a set of moves  as determined by your previous choices  (SERENE MUSIC)  Your options dramatically changing with every decision.  There is no lifeline.  There is no external force at play.  It is a pure battle of two opponents,  or in this case,  one.    Stalemate.    Again.  We need a winner. Let's reset.  Remember when you first taught me how to code?  (SIGHS)  Not really.  It was a computer chess game.  You always told me you had to know more moves ahead  than the player or user.  Sounds like good advice from a good father.  Except for one thing.  You're not my father.  You're not even here right now.  Another stalemate.  What are the odds?  Let's reset.    Doesn't it make you sick that while you're here,  battling me, there are people out there,  hurting everyone we care about?  Everyone's hurting because of us.  We are running around in circles.  This will be the last time that we do it.  Been thinking about what you said earlier.  You can think all the moves you want,  but at the end of the day,  the moves that I'm making are the ones  you're telling me to make.  He's right.  There over 9 million different possible positions  after three chess moves each.  There are over 288 billion different possible positions  after four moves.  The number of 40-move games  is greater than the number of electrons  in the observable universe.  You don't need to know those outcomes.  You just need to be able to see ahead of your opponent.  But how can you when your other opponent is  you?    Stalemate.  Three in a row.  The odds of that are  Impossible.  Go again?  I can't beat you.  And you can't beat me.  We could play again, but  we will always be at this impasse.  (DRAMATIC MUSIC)    And you knew all along.    It was the only way to show you that fighting me  is a waste of time.  No.  No, we'll go again. I can beat you.  I can beat you.  When will you finally realize that I'm here for a reason?    (PIECES CLATTERING) This is avoidance!  Our fight for that future that you want  isn't with me at chess!  It's what you do out there with them.  I want to be here, Elliot.  With you.  I want an office on the 20th floor.  I want Melissa's job, and it's non-negotiable.  Go on.  I saw the pattern.  In every version of the settlement draft  for the Washington Township suit,  there was one small point that your team wouldn't agree on.  It remained the same, even from the original case:  That a third-party company must perform inspections  on the Washington Township plant.  You continue to give up power on all these other provisions  that appear to be a lot more expensive and important,  all in an attempt to drop this one small point.  I know why you had those guys arrested  and why you gave me this job.  You want me to convince the class  to remove the contingency,  and I'm willing to do all of that,  because you're gonna give me  exactly what I want in return.  Those are my terms.  I must say,  you are very impressive.  But I'm sorry, my dear.  This is all in your head.  Now, don't take that as a slight.  Always good to have dreams.  Wait.  I'm not wrong.  Go home.  Fuck.  Do you remember the first command  you ever taught me, and my computer kept crashing?  It was init 1.  That became our thing, and I am telling you right now,  I am fucking crashing, man,  and so are you, and I need your help.  I need you to get on the same channel we used to.  I wouldn't ask you this if it wasn't life or death.  Okay? We're in trouble this time, Elliot.  All of us.  I have no access here.  It's not as if I'm gonna go back to my place.  Well, it needs to happen ASAP,  so figure something out.  We might be owned.  What?  Why?  Well, I don't know, but we need to.  Elliot?  God, Elliot, say something.  (FOREBODING MUSIC)  Did you mean what you said?  That you wanted him, not me?  Did you mean it, Darlene?  I need to know.  I want you.  Only you.  (SUSPENSEFUL MUSIC)    Don't worry.  I know what to do.    Why are we back here?  You cannot do this.  You cannot confess.  This won't save her.  They're gonna destroy her.  Who won?  No one.  What else can I do you for?  You tell him anything, and it's suicide.  I am pleading with you, Elliot, just walk away from this, now.  I'm here to  to help you with that computer problem  you've been having.  I would ask what made you change your mind,  but I'ma quit while I'm ahead.  Hey.  Yeah, get in here.  Did you know  that Moses heard voices too?  Abraham,  John,  Paul,  Jesus.  In fact, many prophets confessed to hearing voices.  People like you  what you have  it can be divinity, Elliot, if you let it.  (DRAMATIC MUSIC)    This is what the last I guys told me I needed to do.    This looks like it's just a simple site migration.  As long as one of us understands.    I got this.    Elliot, before you get started,  something you should know.  My online business is very important to me.  I'm like you. I'm a private guy.  I prefer discretion.    So I'm asking you to help me  with the task at hand  and not to look where you don't need to.    Why is he here?  You need help,  something goes wrong  Lone Star will be here.  He's got my number and can get in touch with me right away.    Thank you again.    I know.  I know.  This is really scratching that part of my brain again,  but that's the part of my brain I need to start ignoring.  What's Darlene saying?  The FBI.  They found the arcade.  There might be a surveillance program.  Romero's dead.  (OMINOUS MUSIC)    What do you think?  Is Ray right?  Should I listen to the voice?  Does it make me special?  Like Moses?  I don't have many options.  My sister's in trouble.  Someone's closing in on us, and at least for her sake,  I have to find out what they know.  Maybe this is how I fight for that future I want.    What exactly are you doing?    I'm hacking the FBI.
1 We might be owned.  Dark Army.  The world's most dangerous hacker crew.  They think the FBI's even snooping around,  and it gets ugly.  They keep asking me questions.  I'm gonna keep telling your story,  but if shit goes down and I get busted,  I'm not gonna get locked up.  My husband will return soon,  and this'll all be over.  He wants to hack Steel Mountain's  climate control system.  (DRAMATIC MUSIC)  Take care of yourself.  There will be fallout from this,  and I'm gonna tell them  I used your computer,  so tell them whatever you want.  The server keeps crashing. I don't know how to stop it.  We need to find someone who can do  that migration thing he keep talking about.  You hack people. I hack time.    Someone's closing in on us.  I have to find out what they know.  My online business is very important to me.  I prefer discretion.  What exactly are you doing?  I'm hacking the FBI.  (DARK CLASSICAL MUSIC)    (KEYBOARD KEYS CLACKING)    Step one: identify the target and its flaws.  There are always flaws.  I learned that early in life.  My first hack, the local library,  a vulnerable FTP server in its as400.  A far cry from the Android zero days I'm using  to own the FBI standard-issue smartphone.  The library was a test to see  if I could even get into the system.  I've since set greater goals.  For instance, step two:  build malware and prepare an attack.  At my fingertips, the zero day is wrapped in code  like a Christmas present, then becomes an exploit,  the programmatic expression of my will.  I live for this shit.    Step three: a reverse shell, two-stage exploit.  The ideal package.  Load the malware into a femtocell delivery system,  my personal cell tower  that'll intercept all mobile data.  Similar to my first time,  when I found myself staring at late book fees,  employee names, member addresses.    Everything was revealed.  The secret of the perfect hack?  Make it infallible.  Hidden within the kernel is a logic bomb,  malicious code designed to execute  under circumstances I've programmed.  Should the FBI take an image of the femtocell,  all memory will self-corrupt, or "explode."  Step four: Write the script.  Why do it myself?  Because that's how I learned, and I know  exactly what, when, and how it's going to run.  I didn't do anything harmful my first time.  Just looked around.  But I felt so powerful.  11 years old and in complete control  of the Washington Township Public Library.  Today is different.  I hacked the world.  Final step: launch the attack.  Once I do, I'll own the Android phone  of every FBI agent in that building.  I'll own Evil Corp's network, applications, everything.  Domain Admin.  This, the thrill of pwning a system,  this is the greatest rush.  God access.  The feeling never gets old.    I'm gonna need to talk to the old sys admin.  The old IT guy,  set this up.  There's an encrypted database on the old server  I'm gonna need access to.  You wanna talk to RT?  If that's his name.  I'll talk to Ray,  see what's what.  (DOOR CLICKS OPEN AND SHUT)  (SWEEPING ORCHESTRAL MUSIC)  (KEYBOARD KEYS CLACKING)     (INDISTINCT CHATTER)      Jeez Louise, look at that.  (DOOR SLAMS)  (SIGHS)  What the hell are you doing here?  How did you get in?  Penetration test. You failed.  I'm done anyway.  What is this?  I haven't seen you in five weeks  and now you're just in my home?  Leave. Now.  Okay, if you want the FBI to find out you were the one  who illegally put a CD into a drive at Allsafe  that set off the crime of the millennium,  be my guest.  - He told you? - Yeah.  And he cleared Allsafe's logs to cover your ass,  but now with the FBI's Five/Nine investigation,  this could all lead back to both you and Elliot.  Why didn't he say anything?  Because that's what he does,  and now it's time for you to help him.  What exactly do you want from me?  (DRAMATIC MUSIC)    Before I tell you,  I need you to keep reminding yourself that this is simple.  Your gut instinct is gonna be screaming a big fucking no,  and I need you to suppress that instinct  and remind yourself that this is simple.  If this little preface was supposed to inspire confidence,  you're failing miserably.  I'll give you a small device,  which you'll take to work,  drop at the Fed's office on the 23rd floor,  and walk away.  Simple.  Here it comes,  that gut instinct I was talking about.  Are you out of your mind?  You want me to hack the FBI?  What possible good would that even do?  Once we have access to their system,  we can make all of the bullshit go away.  Any evidence they have on you and Elliot,  gone.  I'll take my chances.    Fine, play it how you wanna play it,  but I hope for Elliot and your sake,  no one else knows about that CD.    (DOOR CLATTERS OPEN, BELL JINGLES)    (EXHALES DEEPLY)  This is not our usual time nor place to meet.  It was very risky for me to come here.  Talk to me. What's happened?  (SIGHS)  I don't wanna do this anymore.  I lied to the FBI,  and they know it.  They're not stupid.  They saw me sweat.  Now my phone is tapped.  Anytime I make phone calls,  I hear interference, voices.  (BELL JINGLES)  (SIGHS) I mean, who are we protecting?  Some scrawny kid in a hoodie?  Part of our agreement was  that you would not ask any questions.  You're right. You're right.  I just  I know someone is watching me.  I can tell.  On the train, at work, in my apartment.  How do you know?  I just do.  I feel it, you know?  Thank you  for sharing this with me.  I promise you everything will be okay.  (ELEVATOR BELL DINGS)  Hello, sir. You can't be here.  - I work here. - Not on this floor.  Can you help this guy out?  We really need to close off this elevator on-beau.  Firefighters are already battling fierce blazes  I hate coming here. Security's so lax.  I'm still in the middle of this deep dive  on the hard drive reports that came back from Forensics.  I had that dream again.  Except this time, I was walking down a steep hill,  and at the bottom was that same man  wearing a surgical mask.  He never tries to kill you?  Nope. Just staring.  You really don't dream, do you?  Never interested me.  You read Santiago's email?  Let me guess: you're excited.  Fuck yeah, I'm excited. We get to go to China.  Yeah, well, just so you know, I throw up on planes, so  bring a raincoat and nose plugs.  Any updates on her?  Surveillance said she mostly stayed home  and then went to a yoga class.  Then they lost her again.  I'm telling you, it's hard to track people in New York.  Where's the she-devil?  Don't know.  Something's wrong.  Darlene's never quiet unless  Did the malware not check out?  It's Angela.  You need to talk to her.  About what?  With the FBI at Evil Corp, physical security is madness.  We don't have time to prep a new social engineering attack,  - so I went to her - She can't be involved.  What the hell else do you want me to do?  I am telling you, it's a fortress.  There's no way in there right now,  and it's as if we have a lot of time to wait.  - Darlene's right. - I'm not doing it.  Who better than someone you trust?  I'm not discussing Angela with you.  She's our only option.  She's not an option.  Think of something else.  I did my part.  Now you do yours.  Make this happen.  (WOMAN SPEAKING A CHINESE LANGUAGE OVER P.A. SYSTEM)  (INDISTINCT CHATTER)  (FOOTSTEPS TAPPING)  Minister Zhang, it's a pleasure to meet you.  The pleasure is mine, Mr. Santiago.  Welcome to China.  Oh, here.  (CAMERA SHUTTERS CLICKING)  Let's retire into the forum, where we can talk in private.  As you'll see in your escorted tour  of Beijing's backup facility,  our attack was not climate control  like your raspberry pi.  Our backup tapes were degaussed.  We'd like to visit  all four of China's backup sites.  Of course.  And be granted access  to the encrypted E Corp servers.  Absolutely.  Excellent.  Now  there is another subject to discuss.  We understand it is a delicate subject.  The Dark Army?  We'd like to review all intelligence you have on them.  It's just that  some of us think that, you know,  they as a as a known malevolent hacker group  might have  Of course.  We'll get you all of our dossiers  with any intel we might have.  You're schedule to visit our Beijing facility  on Tuesday at 9:00 a.m. sharp.  Enjoy yourselves. Take in the city.  Monday night, I wish to host you at my home.  A reception to celebrate our  collaborative effort.  (SOFT DRAMATIC MUSIC)    (METALLIC RATTLING)    (BABY BABBLES)  (BABY BABBLES)  (RATTLING)  (BASKETBALLS DRIBBLING, INDISTINCT CHATTER)  You can't just do it yourself?  No, not without access to the database.  But you're the best.  The master.  Ain't that true?  (SIGHS) You gotta understand.  I hesitate because R and I didn't part ways  on the best of terms.  Yeah, come on!  I wouldn't ask if there were another way.  You're wasting time, time we don't have.  You need to call Angela.  Maxine, what's wrong, girl?  Shh, don't make me think the worst now.  Is she okay?  (SIGHS)  If you say you need him,  you must need him.  I'll have RT stop by.  Son, y'all know y'all can't jump.  (SINGING IN DANISH)  (BABY FUSSES)  (INDISTINCT CHATTER ON RADIO)  (SIGHS) I tracked the last package  to the Midtown post office it was mailed from.  However, there's no evidence on the security footage  of anyone mailing it from inside the station.  It was probably dropped in a nearby collection box.  And I have a contact attempting to trace the phone calls,  but he needs more time.  I'll keep you updated as always.  Good night, ma'am.  And Kareem?  I did as you asked.  (GRUNTS)  (MUFFLED SPEECH)  (SOFT DRAMATIC MUSIC)    (DOOR CLICKS SHUT)  Framed burglary.  Cops'll likely go after  an ex-con who lives on the same floor.  MO matches other B&Es the guy's suspected of.    (HEARTBEAT THUMPING SLOWLY)  Tell me  tell me about his death.  (GLASS SHATTERS)  (FABRIC RIPPING)  Succinylcholine.  Injected as ordered.  And he didn't feel anything?  He was completely paralyzed.    (HEARTBEAT THUMPING SLOWLY)    It'll appear there was a struggle.  He pulled his gun in self-defense.  The attacker got him first.  Two gunshot wounds: one to the chest  (SILENCED GUNSHOTS) Another to the head.  Did he look at you  before you finished the job?  Yes.  Ma'am, if I may,  why drug him?  It would have been just as easy to shoot and leave.  Killing a man instantly  robs him of explanation.  He has no time to process his final moments.  Now, even though he was paralyzed,  his mind was still able to understand  why his life was ending.  (HEARTBEAT THUMPING SLOWLY)  We let him die with answers.  Otherwise  We're nothing but ruthless murderers.  Thank you.  (DOOR CLICKS OPEN AND SHUT)  (SINGING IN DANISH)  (TENSE MUSIC)    (SOFT MUSIC)    (INDISTINCT SPEECH ON TV)    - Hey. - Hi.  I gotta say, I never thought  I'd ever hear from you again.  I ordered you a Bud Light.  Thanks.  (SIGHS) You know, I'm  I'm glad we're sitting here again.  Our old spot.  You know,  booth over there by the window.  Remember?  It's where I first said the three magic words.  Yeah, no, I don't think I remember that.  "I love you."  I-I meant it too.  I-I miss you, Angela.  Thanks.  Yeah, a lot of lot of  lot of good memories.  And look, Josh Groban night.  (LAUGHS) It's like we're, uh,  reliving our glory days.  - (CHUCKLES WEAKLY) - But, uh, you, wow.  I mean, I hear things are going great with you.  I hope this is cool  and not, like, weird,  but, um, I brought my résumé,  if you can if you can do anything.  Well, I just figured, hey,  if there are any open positions  I'll see what I can do.  So tell me.  How's life over there?  Very different than Allsafe.  You miss it?  Yeah.  And Gideon.  Crazy sad.  You know, I heard the dude that shot him was,  like, off his rocker.  One of those, uh, Five/Nine truthers.  Some people even say that the whole thing was,  uh, like, a put-on.  Like a like one of those,  uh, crisis performances or whatever.  You know you know, those Frank Cody types.  Anyways, tragic for sure.  So you ever think that CD had anything to do with it?  Excuse me?  I'm just saying, like,  Allsafe was was ground zero.  What the fuck?  Are you working with the FBI?  No, it's  (WHISPERING) My uncle is a lawyer.  He told me to be careful and record any suspicious  - It's my uncle's fault. - What the fuck?  What oh, come on! (STAMMERS)  My contract was cleared because of the hack.  I can't afford a new phone.  Answer me.  Honestly. Right now.  Did you talk to the FBI?  No.  Yes.  I me I mean, Angela,  look, they called me in, like, three times.  I can't sleep. I am scared as shit.  - What did you tell them? - Nothing.  Just about the CD guy, and then they did,  like, the sketch or whatever, the facial composite thing,  but I swear, I never said your name.  Wait, where are you going?  Where  (INDISTINCT CHATTER)  This food is not sanitary, am I right?  I mean, where's the General Tso's chicken?  I don't think that's a formal hors d'oeuvre in China.  Yeah? I'm gonna ask.  (SIGHS)  This noodle bowl thing made me gag.  These people are savages.  Excuse me, do you know where the bathroom is?  Bathroom?  Um, toilet?  No English?  Okay, thank you.  (CLOCKS TICKING)  Pardon me, do you have the time?  Oh, shit.  Mr. Zhang, I  I was just admiring looking at  for the  Oh, right, the time 'cause of the  You've wandered very far from the party.  I was looking for the little girls' room,  and then I And this caught your eye?  Yeah, I (EXHALES)  I know it seems a little uncanny,  but my parents had the same clock  in our family room growing up.  I found this in Germany. The town of Rothenburg.  Cost me a fortune.  The seller told me that it was one of a kind.  (SCOFFS)  So much for the honest salesman. (CHUCKLES)  My parents bought theirs at a Kmart in Teaneck.  Oh, is that where you're from?  - Miss - Jersey born and raised.  And my full name is Dominique DiPierro,  but I go by Dom.  Or Agent DiPierro.  Or just Dom.  So if I can ask,  what's the deal with the clocks?  Is it a punctuality thing?  "Life is but a walking shadow,  "a poor player that struts and frets  "his hour upon the stage  and then is heard no more."  You've surrounded yourself  with the constant reminder of mortality.  There's much work to do, great work.  As each second passes,  I push myself to keep moving.  You're making me think I should invest  in a decent watch.  (LAUGHS SOFTLY)  Now, if I may ask,  how does a young woman from New Jersey  find her way into the FBI?  I was  I am  disgusted by the selfish brutality of the world,  but at the same time, I'm utterly fascinated by it.  The FBI's a perfect place for that kind of contradiction.  I have something in my office I think you might appreciate.  The artist strives to reflect the desolation and anxiety  that accompanies one's loss of identity.  His message is subversive to many in our country.  Nevertheless, the work appeals to the masses  and to the individual.  How is it that revolution can create such beautiful art  yet you and I are tracking revolutionaries  who've created nothing but turmoil?  There's more to the story.  I'm sorry?  FBI.  Why you joined.  What was it?  It's a little personal.  That's precisely why I'm asking.  Oh.  Okay.  (CHUCKLES NERVOUSLY) Um  Well, it was a certain relationship.  A love story?  Of sorts. Sort of, sure.  Final semester of law school,  dating who I thought was the one,  at dinner,  days before graduation  they got down on one knee to propose, and  This is gonna make me sound wacky,  but I  excused myself to the restroom and went out the back, and  That was that.  Fast-forward several years, I turn around,  and here's what I picked instead.  A mid-level field agent.  (LAUGHS SOFTLY)  - What is it? - I just  Uh, I never would have (LAUGHS)  expected to be talking about an old flame  to China's minister of state security.  - Ah. - (LAUGHS)  It'll make a good story at Thanksgiving.  My dad'll love it.  (BOTH LAUGHING)  Whose room is this?  Wow.  These are gorgeous.  A magua,  the common Manchu clothing of the Qing Dynasty.  Detailed embroidery such as this  was often reserved for the royal families.  This is a modern qípáo  by Jin Zhi Yu Ye.  Purchased in Shanghai.  The silk fabric and embroidered lace are unrivaled.  Here.  (SOFTLY) Wow.  I've never touched something so beautiful.  I feel the same way each time.  Where did these come from?  They belong to my sister.  She stays here when she's passing through Beijing.  Let me ask, Miss DiPierro,  have you ever wondered how the world would look  if the Five/Nine hack never happened?  How the world would look right now?  In fact, some believe there are alternate realities  playing out that very scenario,  with other lives that we're leading  Other people  that we've become.  The contemplation moves me very deeply.  (CLOCKS CHIMING)  Wow, you weren't kidding.  You really do have a thing  I apologize, I must go.  May I escort you back to the party?  (CLOCK RINGING, CLOCKS WINDING)  (INDISTINCT SPEECH ON TV)  Why are you here?  Because I wanna be.  I told Darlene I didn't want you involved.  She was right to involve me.  Please don't do this. I'll find another way.  Darlene said it's a simple job.  I place the device on the floor and walk away.  Then you guys will make everything go away,  any evidence that you find.  That's true, right?  - Right? - That's our plan.  But that's not the point.  Don't put yourself at risk.  I've run through my options.  Best-case scenario: I lose my job  and plea-bargain down a jail sentence.  I'm backed into a corner.  Either I act, or I wait to get caught.  I told myself that I would wait to decide until I saw you  because you wouldn't let me walk into this  unless you were sure that you could pull it off.  I've decided.  I miss you. You know that, right?  I reached out to you so many times,  and you kept saying no.  Can I just know why?  I keep thinking about that day  on the train platform.  After you found me in the cemetery.  You told me to take care of myself.  I wanted to be okay.  I wanted to s-stop seeing him  before I talked to you again.  And?  And my dead father's standing behind you right now.  I can be a friend.  (SOFT MUSIC)  Someone to talk to.  Someone who cares about you.    Who knows? Maybe that will help.    How's Qwerty?  (CHUCKLES) He's good.  He's fat.  I think I'm feeding him too much.  (CHUCKLES)  This is the federal bailout.  All right, this is critical, and you're just  backing out of our biggest operation?  This isn't open for debate.  I can't go, and it's none of your goddamn business why.  I want you to lead the D.C. op.  You're being promoted.  Take the crew down to the Capitol tonight  and begin prepping.  You serious? Really?  Well, you've done good.  Now take charge. Act like a leader.  This is a very serious opportunity.  - You know the plan, right? - Oh, yeah.  Good. Don't forget the package.  (CELL PHONE BUZZES)  I can't tell you how much I appreciate this.  I'm not gonna let you down.  All right, I'm gonna do you proud.  - And they're gonna remember fso - Okay, just do your job  and stop acting like such a pussy.  I gotta take this.  Hello?  (MELLOW ROCK MUSIC PLAYING)  When?  There's an encrypted users database  in the marketplace directory.  Here, um, just  let me drive.  You gonna ask or just stare?  Okay, what happened?  It was a rhetorical question.  Just stare.  (SOFT DRAMATIC MUSIC)  This guy obviously knows his shit.  Why did Ray come to me?    Then you'll, um  transfer the archives to the local machine.    And then transfer the existing site  from the local machine  to the new server.            You don't know when to stop.  This is what you wanted, remember?  Me, here at a terminal.    Good to go.  Uh, check on it if you need to.    Everyone has their own  if/then conditional programming,  a situation where if certain conditions are met,  then a logic bomb detonates.  Everything blows up in your face.  Is this Ray's if/then moment or my own?    If Ray is running the site himself,  why bring me in?  Maybe he doesn't know the evil that he's spreading.  Maybe he has no idea what's on the site.  Ray is protective, kind.  Ray is dangerous, a criminal.  Are those his two halves?  Which side of him is stronger?  Is he sinister enough to host the  Stop figuring this out.  I wanna know.  (QUIETLY) You know.  But you're going to ignore it.  You wanna know why?  Because that's what we do.    It's not what I do.  If he's guilty,  I could destroy him  in under two minutes at a terminal.  Are we really back to this again?  Ray is not some coffee shop owner.  Forget what you saw and move on.  You're thinking only of yourself.  I'm thinking of us.    And I'm thinking of the people in those pictures.  I could help them.  (QUIETLY) We have other battles to fight.  (QUIETLY) What else is new?    A logic bomb explodes either at a set time  or when a specific condition is met.  And now I've met Ray's black market of evil.  Mr. Robot can deny it all he wants,  but I can't.  Can you?  (MUSIC BOX PLAYING SOFT MUSIC)    (CELL PHONE BUZZING)  Hello?  (BREATHING HEAVILY)      (SIRENS WAILING)  Tyrell    (AMBULANCE HORN HONKS)  (AMBULANCE HORN HONKS)  (DRAMATIC MUSIC)      (HORN HONKS)    (DOOR RATTLES OPEN)    (INDISTINCT CHATTER)    (CAR HORN HONKS)    Were you followed?  No, I don't think so.  Did you take the route I sent you?  Yeah.  Where's your cell phone?  At home.  No bullshit from here on.  Understand?    Oh, my head is pounding.  Way too much of that Baijiu drink last night.  Speaking of, where'd you go?  I got stuck listening to Jesse trying to speak Chinese.  He made a lot of people really uncomfortable.  Oh, you know, your average evening.  A private tour from Minister Zhang himself.  (LAUGHING SOFTLY) What?  Was he putting, uh, moves on you?  No, not like that.  But he did take me to his sister's bedroom  and show me her clothes.  - That's sort of weird. - Mm-hmm.  Even more so when you consider  Minister Zhang doesn't have a sister.  Nice look, Hollywood.  Thanks. I got myself all gussied up  - for the field trip. - (CHUCKLES)  - Where's Santiago? - On another rampage.  ADIC called with updates about the raspberry pi.  - Great. - Not great.  Turns out the guy who found it  smudged his fat fingers all over it,  smearing any possible prints.  - (SIGHS) - Another dead end.  When Santiago stomped off, he was threatening  to reach through his cell phone and castrate the guy.  - Fantastic. - (CHUCKLES)  Think I'm gonna need more caffeine  to survive the day.  (GUN COCKS, WOMAN SCREAMS)  - (GRUNTS) - (PEOPLE SCREAMING)  (GUNFIRE)  (PEOPLE YELLING AND SCREAMING)  Get them kids out of there! (GRUNTS)  (GUNFIRE)  - (GUNSHOT) - (GRUNTS)  (GUNFIRE)  (SIRENS WAILING FAINTLY)  (GUNSHOT)  (PANTING)  (GUNFIRE)  (HIGH-PITCHED RINGING)  (GUNFIRE)  (DRAMATIC MUSIC)    Hey! Hey!  Hey! Help!  (THUMPING) Ah!  Stop! Help!  Help!  (GRUNTS)  (DOOR SLAMS)  Fuck.  (STRAINING)    You are one stupid fucker.  Never trust a guy with a rattail.  Too easy to carve secrets out of.  (CAR DOOR CLICKS OPEN)  (PANTING)    Ray  what are you doing?  I told you not to look.    (GRUNTS)  (ALL GRUNTING)  (THUDDING AND GRUNTING)    (ECHOING THUDDING)
1 I don't have many options. Someone's closing in on us.  I have to find out what they know.  - What exactly are you doing? - I'm hacking the FBI.  With the FBI at Evil Corp, physical security is madness.  It's Angela. She's our only option.  - Did you talk to the FBI? - This is simple.  I'll give you a small device which you'll take to work.  Drop at the Fed's office on the 23rd floor, and walk away.  We have no other options; the president can't  go to Congress with a bailout right now.  Let me know when you've locked up the votes.  What are you up to?  You're not doing anything  on your end to help.  Yo, yo, yo, yo, please buy my CD.  He got into my system  and he wants me to put the CD  on one of the computers at work.  Well, I guess I should pay up, Ahmed,  before I get lynched over here.  Let me guess. You're excited.  Yeah, I'm excited.  We get to go to China.  (RAPID GUNFIRE, SCREAMING)  Elliot, before you get started,  I'm asking you to help me  and not look where you don't need to.  Are we really back to this again?  Ray is not some coffee shop owner.  Forget what you saw and move on.  Hey! Hey!  We're deep down inside you, Elliot.  You can't leave us,  and we can't leave you.  (TRIUMPHANT MUSIC)  # #  You're watching USA,  America's favorite cable network.  # #  (UPBEAT MUSIC)  Everybody knows   when the feeling's right   gonna rock the house, it's TV night   get ready   for Word Up Wednesday   (LIGHT FLUTE MUSIC)  # #  What's happening?  Where are we going?  God, Elliot, what's your damage?  Cool it, Darlene.  You know your brother needs our help sometimes.  That boy of ours.  You sure we're not first cousins?  (AUDIENCE LAUGHS)  Where we're going, Elliot, is a surprise.  Can't say much else.  What I can tell you is,  it's a place that makes everything better,  a place that changes you.  I should be so lucky.  (AUDIENCE LAUGHS)  I have a hunch that you just might thank me  once we get there.  Why?  What do you mean, why?  This is the annual Alderson family road trip, that's why.  With all of us together, taking on the world,  what could possibly go wrong?  (AUDIENCE LAUGHS)  (THUMPING AND MUFFLED SCREAMING)  What's that sound?  (CLEARS THROAT)  Say, Elliot, what's going on with you and that girl?  I always liked her. Angela Moss.  Oh, brother, kill me now.  (AUDIENCE LAUGHS)  Me and Angela, we're friends.  Ah, I see how it is.  You two are just gonna keep stringing us along.  Elliot and Angela, a regular will-they-won't-they couple.  (COUGHS)  Uh-oh, sounds like that cancer's acting up again.  Looks like it too.  (AUDIENCE LAUGHS)  What is that?  That laughing?  Mom, Elliot's hearing voices.  What else is new?  (AUDIENCE LAUGHS)  If you're not careful, Dad's gonna push you  out a window again.  Pipe down, Darlene.  While I'm alive, you need to treat me with respect.  I'm your father.  Not for long.  (AUDIENCE "OOHS")  (AUDIENCE LAUGHS)  (PUNCHES LANDING, ELECTRONIC MUSIC PLAYING)  # #  Eyes up, son.  See, on this journey of life,  it's best to stay focused on the road ahead,  'cause if you spend too much time looking down,  you might just end up with a crick in your neck.  (APPLAUSE)  (LIGHT MUSIC)  # #   Used to be you could trust in the story   Vilify the villains and celebrate the heroes   You could believe in the guts and the glory ways   # #  # #  # #  # #  # #  # #  # #  # #  # #  # #  # #  (THUMPING)  # #  # #  # #  # #  # #  (UPBEAT MUSIC)  # #  (GRUNTS)  Nick of time, huh?  (ELECTRONIC VIDEO GAME MUSIC PLAYING)  What?  I can feel your bug eyes on me.  (AUDIENCE LAUGHS)  Can I see your Game Boy?  No way, you're not allowed.  Your father told you to look ahead.  And you, turn that game down.  Are your fingers broken, young lady?  Not yet, but in this family, it's only a matter of time.  (AUDIENCE LAUGHS)  - (SIZZLING) - Ow!  You're burning me.  So what if he hears?  (AUDIENCE LAUGHS)  How about being more useful  than your sack-of-potatoes sister?  Mama needs a new pack of Slims.  Lights, remember? I'm watching my figure.  (AUDIENCE LAUGHS)  (SIGHS)  (THUMPING, MUFFLED SCREAMING)  (MUFFLED) Somebody help me!  Help!  Somebody!  I'm trapped in here!  I'm here!  (MUFFLED YELLING)  - No so fast, kiddo. - Isn't that  Nothing but baggage, sorry to say.  No, no, that was Ty  We're gonna have to get your peepers checked  as soon as we get home.  In the meantime, go do what you got to do.  We shove off in five.  (UPBEAT MUSIC)  # #  (BELLS JINGLE)  (CHEERS AND APPLAUSE)  I'm sorry.  Hey, no problem, E-meister.  Give me four!  (AUDIENCE LAUGHS)  Or not.  (LAUGHTER AND APPLAUSE)  Can I help you?  I didn't know you worked here.  Well, I started as a part-time sales associate.  Then they promoted me to assistant manager.  Now I'm on pace to be full manager.  It almost makes up for them killing my mom.  (AUDIENCE LAUGHS)  Come on, son. Grab what you can.  Cheez-Its, Pringles, Jolt!  What are you doing?  Elliot, stop him, or I'm gonna call the police.  (MACE HISSES)  (SCREAMING)  (AUDIENCE LAUGHS)  Can't worry about her anymore, son.  She's one of them.  No, she's not. She's my friend.  I promise, there are other fish in the sea.  And if you're anything like your old man  On second thought, don't be anything like your old man.  (AUDIENCE LAUGHS)  All right, gang, let's pack it up and hit the trail.  Together!  Because it's one for Alderson and  Alderson for one?  (AUDIENCE LAUGHS)  (LIGHT MUSIC)  # #  You guys'll never believe this.  I just had the most messed-up dream  that Mom slugged me in the face.  (AUDIENCE LAUGHS)  I got to get out of here.  (PUNCHES LANDING)  Uh-huh, Buster.  Eyes on the road in front of you.  (LOUD POP)  (TIRES SQUEALING)  (DRAMATIC MUSIC)  Ouch.  # #  Well, things suddenly aren't looking so hot  for the Alderson clan.  You screwed up another vacation.  All it not yet lost, gang. I have a donut.  (SIGHS)  Just have to get it from underneath my, uh  (MUFFLED YELLING)  (AUDIENCE LAUGHS)  Baggage.  (GRUNTS)  Do you really expect me to believe  there's no one in there?  Elliot, come on. Not this business again.  You're really starting to worry me, kiddo.  Did you hit your head during our little blowout?  Enough of this (BLEEP)!  (AUDIENCE "OOHS")  Tell me what's happening.  What is this?  (POLICE SIREN WHOOPS)  Whoa, that doesn't sound good.  On the plus side, I hear jumpsuits are in these days.  (AUDIENCE LAUGHS)  (UPBEAT ROCK MUSIC)  In times of chaos and uncertainty,  when the world feels off balance,  we look to those who've stood with us  from the beginning.  Since 1884, we've had America's back.  We may get knocked down,  but we'll never get knocked out.  We still have your back.  (UPBEAT MUSIC)  Stay calm, collected.  Follow my lead. It'll always work out.  (APPLAUSE)  Car trouble, huh?  He's onto us. Run for it!  (AUDIENCE LAUGHS)  Gideon, you're alive.  You folks haven't seen a clan of outlaws  with a kidnapped corporate exec, have you?  (HORN HONKS)  Yikes!  (TIRES SCREECHING)  (CRASH)  (HUBCAP CLATTERING)  (LAUGHS) I kill me!  (AUDIENCE LAUGHS)  (THUMP)  (CHEERS AND APPLAUSE)  (UPBEAT MUSIC)  # #  Seem upset, son.  Seriously, Elliot, it's been forever  since that poor cop passed.  It's been 12 seconds.  (AUDIENCE LAUGHS)  It's time to move past it.  Future is bright,  endless like that horizon out there.  (AUDIENCE LAUGHS)  Whatever you're doing with me, I don't care.  Just take me back.  It's not that simple, kiddo.  (TIRES SQUEALING)  Someone help me!  I'm a businessman!  A very important businessman.  (THUD)  (AUDIENCE LAUGHS)  You gonna tell me why you took him?  First you're hearing voices.  Now you're seeing things.  He's right in front of us!  We're staring at him!  Am I the only one here who isn't bat (BLEEP)?  (AUDIENCE LAUGHS)  (BLEEP)!  (AUDIENCE LAUGHS)  It'll feel good if you let it.  Believing it's real makes it so.  Come on, grab him by the loafers.  Oh, please, gentlemen.  Ankles instead?  The shoes, they're Ferragamo.  (AUDIENCE LAUGHS)  both: Hyah!  (AUDIENCE LAUGHS)  The laughing.  It's a lie.  (SIGHS)  Sometimes lies can be useful, Elliot.  Sometimes they protect you.  And sometimes they help you get away with murder.  (AUDIENCE LAUGHS)  (SOFT MUSIC)  (SIGHS)  When the truth is painful, son  and it often is  a lie is the only remedy.  'Cause too much truth, too much honesty,  that'll kill ya.  # #  This whole place is a lie.  # #  Nothing here is true.  # #  Listen,  I know your gut's saying not to trust me.  But look around.  Everything you see,  it's all here for you.  # #  To help you.  You should try just going along with it.  # #  This is it,  isn't it?  You've won.  You've taken over.  What's that, kiddo?  # #  That's what this is.  This road trip.  This family vacation.  I'm buried here.  # #  Well, I'll let you in on a little secret.  This was never gonna be permanent.  We did always have a destination.  # #  After the beating you took,  at least they got you to a doctor.  # #  You got yourself pretty messed up.  If I were alive, I'd want no part of that agony.  Nobody's won anything, Elliot,  especially not me.  I'm just trying to help you put it all in the rearview  as painlessly as possible.  # #  Bring 'er in, kiddo.  # #  Now that the worst is behind you,  it's time we get you back.  (GASPS)  (MONITOR BEEPING)  (SOMBER MUSIC)  # #  (GASPING BREATH)  Maxine, my dog.  Started to develop a cough two weeks ago.  She got pretty frail pretty quick.  Fell over a few times.  According to the vet,  she danced with the wrong mosquito,  got herself a  nasty case of heartworm.  She was moved to a little room off the basement,  had a water heater for a roommate.  Before she got sick,  Maxine lived like her own operator.  Didn't seem to cross her mind that she belonged to someone.  But in that basement, she needed human hands  to give her every scrap of food,  every pill  Occasional light.  # #  (WHIMPERING)  For the first time, she realized  that she continues to breathe  because someone else allowed it,  that she had a master.  (RASPING)  Now, I'm no vet,  but I think that realization might have killed her  before the parasites had a chance.  (SIGHS)  Anyway, I'ma quit yapping,  let you rest.  Big days ahead.  Work to do.  # #  We can sit here and complain,  or we can go out there and enjoy ourselves.  I'm gonna sit here and complain.  (AUDIENCE LAUGHS)  Well, not everyone enjoys spending their vacation  in a rain forest.  We're in this rain forest because of you!  I vote we go home.  You're not voting on this.  Call the newspapers.  Democracy is dead.  (AUDIENCE LAUGHS)  (APPLAUSE)  It's been two days since the shocking terror attack  at Beijing's Bayi Lake Hotel,  and while the exact death toll has yet to be released,  an anonymous source  Owning the FBI was never gonna be easy.  But now everyone's on high alert.  We'll be fine.  We only have one day.  You heard what Angela said.  An inter-office email stating that the FBI's CART team  is vacating E Corp tomorrow.  We don't have a shot  once they're back at the field office.  She'll be ready.  Darlene.  We just started teaching her.  For someone like Angela, learning all of this in 24 hours  is next to impossible.  Uh that?  Okay, uh, you know what?  It's pause.  Maybe you need to sometimes it helps to visualize it, okay?  So here.  Your network cable is gonna be plugged  into one of these suckers.  That's a battery-powered home-brewed mobile tower  called a femtocell.  Now, this guy won't help us get on the FBI network.  That won't be accessible at E Corp.  What this guy will do is force  every FBI cell phone to connect to it  so it can get every email, text message, and document.  Now, you SSH in, run the first script.  Period, forward slash,  EnableAttack, space,  femtopwn, space,  WLAN0, comma,  WLAN1, space, two.  No Uh, that's  Yeah.  I will get this.  Let's just try it again.  Mm-hmm.  Um  okay.  This is a Rubber Ducky.  All else fails, you find an FBI laptop anywhere on the floor.  They're usually Panasonic Toughbooks.  Plug this guy in,  wait 15 seconds, then yank it, okay?  Thanks to a tool called mimikatz,  it'll pull all cached passwords and domain info in  and save them on this.  Won't give us everything  but might help lead us somewhere.  Just a backup plan.  Okay. Let's try again. (CLAPS)  You can't teach someone to hack in one day, okay?  I don't know how we'll be ready by tomorrow.  - We need more time. - Well, we don't have it.  And once they leave E Corp, we're done.  Okay, just keep working on the scripts with Angela.  Rise and repeat, again and again.  Wax on, wax off.  Do whatever you got to do, but this is happening.  Okay, the holdup on the femtocell  isn't helping either, okay?  I still need to load the exploit, need to test it  It'll be here.  Cisco's still modding and swapping antennas.  (DRAMATIC MUSIC)  # #                            Really, man?  I thought we were on the same team.  Wait, wait, wait, wait. No, no, no, no.  What the fuck, Xun?  What the fuck is going on?  Get off me, man! Xun, what the hell's going on?  Xun, Xun, just wait. The fuck's going on, man?  What the fuck is going on, man?  Get off me. Get off me.  Fuck, dude.  Get off me, man.      No, no, stop, stop, stop. No, no, no.  No, no, no, no, no.  Stop, stop, stop, stop, stop!    (SCREAMING)      (SCREAMS)  (WHIMPERING)    (GROANING)  Agent Ramos recommends four weeks' psych leave.  And you know I don't take his evaluations lightly.  You were also there.  I was in my room.  I got lucky.  You were smack in the middle.  You owe yourself some time.  I can't go away for a month.  I won't.  We disrupt the investigation, the Dark Army wins.  Chinese are pointing to a group of Uighur separatists.  I told you what I saw at the airport.  What you saw doesn't mean anything.  Excuse me, but I disagree.  We were there to investigate the hack,  and then we were under fire.  That is not a coincidence.  By all reports, the Dark Army are just hackers.  It's not their MO to shoot up a hotel  teeming with FBI.  Violent separatists would have taken more victims.  I clipped one of the shooters in the leg.  He went down, hit the floor.  He could have kept firing.  I read the reports, DiPierro.  He turned the gun on himself.  He erased his history.  And the other shooter actually had me cornered.  I was done.  Swear to God.  But instead, for some reason,  he also put his weapon to his head  and pulled the trigger.  Their mission wasn't to slaughter us.  If it was, I wouldn't be here arguing with you right now.  They were there to disrupt our investigation,  to send us home,  and to leave nothing behind.  I don't know what to say.  Everyone's emotional because of this Beijing thing.  Revenge is on everyone's minds.  The drums of war. I know you hear them.  Be that as it may, Mr. Speaker,  there are ways to drown them out.  With enough passion, people will buy into anything,  especially at times like these.  The Chinese tied our hands on this one.  If I try to advocate borrowing from them now,  the American public will call me a traitor.  And, Phillip, frankly,  I don't even know if I disagree with them.  Don't shit a shitter, John.  You enter this pissing contest with China  instead of passing this bailout, the country goes bankrupt.  Believe me, I would if I could.  A bailout.  No one can make that happen, not in this climate.  I'm sorry, Phillip.  Minister Zhang's office has been unreachable.  (CHUCKLES)  That cocksucker.  Well, call him again  and again and again and again.  Don't fucking leave until you get him.  Where's my car?  I'm late for my next appointment.  Sorry, sir.  The driver's having trouble  getting into the parking structure.  Protesters have surrounded the building.  Tell Bratton to summon as much NYPD as is necessary.  (CROWD YELLING ANGRILY)  (DARK MUSIC)  My success is assured.  My success is assured.  My success is assured.  My success is assured.  My success is assured.  My success is assured.  Um, you know you can't talk to yourself  during the actual operation?  Whatever it takes,  as long as you're almost ready for liftoff.  We settled on midtown JW?  23rd floor, Eastside View.  This'll be during their lunch hour,  so the floor should be pretty empty.  Okay,  we're officially good to go.  (WINCES)  # #  The hell is this?  # #  Nothing.  I thought I recognized your friend,  but I don't.  I'll wait for your call when I get there.  Jesus.  At least you still got a few of these left.  I cannot get through a day in that E Corp building  without juicing, you know what I mean?  - (CHUCKLES) - (CHUCKLES SOFTLY)  Hey, how soon till you re-up on, um  Everything?  Oh, well, that's it for this place.  I thought I could weather the storm, but that's  I can't.  I know it's rough out there, but you're a survivor, Ahmed.  (CHUCKLES)  Yeah, well, not when I can't pay the rent.  With this cash allowance, no one's coming in.  No customers, no inventory.  No more of the best damn turkey sandwich  in the tri-state.  Heh.  Man, I'm real sorry.  Yeah. Thanks.  Well, I guess I got to take advantage  while I still can, right?  How about it?  Turkey sandwich on whole wheat.  Oh, yeah, okay.  Lettuce, mayo, Muenster.  ("GWAN" BY THE SUFFERS)  # #  (ELEVATOR DINGS)  Ooh, let me fit ya   Let me fit ya with a new glove   Yeah, hi, I'm in room 2301.  I just used my last towel.  I'm running out for a sec but was wondering if someone  could leave a few extras by my door?  Thank you.  G'wan, oh   Yeah   Oh, hi.  Oh, there's no conditioner in my room,  and I'm sure gonna need it with this humidity.  You know how it is.  Let me fix you   Thanks, doll.  Let me fix you up just the way I like   There'll be no breaks, love   And once we get it we'll be going at it all night   Once we get g'wan, g'wan, g'wan, ooh   Yeah, yeah   Once I get ya g'wan, g'wan, g'wan, ooh   Yeah, yeah   Going   I said going, yeah, yeah   (KEYBOARD KEYS CLACKING)  (PHONE BUZZES)  Are we still on for lunch?  Yeah, I'll be there.  (EXHALES DEEPLY)  (ELEVATOR DINGS)  (ELEVATOR DINGS)  Let me hit ya   Let me hit you up into a new way   And once it hits, love   Boy, you can bet that you'll be begging me to stay   Once we get g'wan, g'wan, g'wan, ooh   Yeah, yeah   Once I get ya g'wan, g'wan, g'wan, ooh   How's it going?  Yeah, yeah   Going   I said going   Yeah, yeah, yeah   Going   I said going   Yeah, yeah, yeah   Going   I said going   Yeah, yeah, yeah, hey   Yeah, hey, yeah, hey, yeah, hey   Yeah, hey, yeah, hey, yeah, yeah   Hey, hey   # #  Shit.  # #  (LINE TRILLS)  Shit.  What's up?  The script, it isn't working.  Mobley, are you on?  Yeah, what's on your terminal?  "EnableAttack not found."  (DOOR OPENS)  # #  Everything okay?  Angela, what's happening?  # #  Angela?  # #  I'm good.  Okay, you have to change your path.  CD, bin, hit Enter.  - Done. - Now run the script.  (KEYBOARD KEYS CLACKING)  And we are live.  Wi-Fi interface is up.  Communicating with femtocell.  Good work.  We're almost there. Do your thing.  # #  Is everything okay?  Who the hell is that?  Yeah.  Fine.  You were in there awhile.  I didn't mean for that to sound weird.  I just noticed because I've never seen you  on this floor before.  I wanted to make sure you're all right is all.  We don't have time for this. Get rid of him.  Anyway, I'm Agent Ross Thomas, CY-5.  Mobley, you're getting the transfers.  Anything?  Angela.  He hails from San Diego,  relationship is complicated.  So what's it like?  Knowing that every room you walk into,  at least one person is quietly trying to muster the courage  to ask you out.  Jesus, end this before I hurl.  Mobley.  He's been in the bureau for under a year.  Was infosec before then.  I don't really think about that.  Don't have much yet.  Well, would you think about drinks with me?  Say, tomorrow night?  I'm actually seeing someone.  Oh, come on. I'm not proposing.  It's one drink.  I won't take no for an answer.  I'm flattered, but I really have to get back to work.  I've got something.  He calls his mom a weird amount,  and I will exploit that weirdness.  This floor, it's off-limits to non-bureau.  Did you know that?  I thought you all were moving.  ("DEAR MAMA" BY 2PAC PLAYS ON CELL PHONE)  Don't you know we love you sweet   Dear Mama   Well? You want to tell me why you're here?  Shit, Mobley, I'm looking too.  Angela, hold on a sec.  I'm waiting.  So that's all you got?  A little brush-off and you give up?  (LAUGHS SOFTLY)  I just wanted a little flight.  No one's ever handed a win.  What are you doing for lunch?  Busy tomorrow, but  I can meet you downstairs.  Like, 30?  (CHUCKLES)  I know a great Greek place around the corner.  I'll see you in a half.  All right, you need to find a cubicle  with a network switch under it.  Should be on the ground.  Lots of Ethernet cables and flashing LEDs.  (SUSPENSEFUL MUSIC)  # #  Found one.  All right, put the battery backup down  and the femtocell next to it.  Plug the battery backup into a power strip.  Do not unplug the femtocell from the battery backup.  After that, plug the other end  of the yellow network cable into the switch.  # #  Don't forget to wipe your prints from everything.  # #  Okay, the femtocell's plugged in.  # #  You killed it.  Go celebrate.  # #  Shit.  We lost Wi-Fi.  You need to get to a terminal and bring it back up.  Screw you. I did what you asked.  If we can't get the interface to load,  then we can't use the Juniper ScreenOS backdoor  to own the network,  which means I can't wipe the security footage  of you planting the femtocell.  You're fucking kidding me.  Just get to your cubicle.  I'll walk you through it.  Masters. We all have them.  Every relationship's a power struggle.  Some of us need to be controlled.  Once in a while, the best course of action  is to just ride shotgun.  Stare at the road ahead,  and hope it leads somewhere you want to go.  (OMINOUS MUSIC)  # #  There's a USB flash drive in that bag.  When you get to your cubicle, power off your machine,  plug the flash drive in, and power it back on.  Hold F12 to bring up your boot options.  Make sure you boot from USB.  Make sure live AMD64 is highlighted,  then hit Enter.  When the desktop comes up, open a terminal.  Click on the icon of the black screen,  just like you practiced.  Okay, now I need you to type the following:  SSH, space,  dash L, space,  root, space,  L4713116.e-corp-usa.com.  # #  I lost my place.  The last thing that I entered was three.  116.e-corp-usa.com.  # #  Okay.  Okay, password: joshua.  Homestretch you're gonna have to bring up  both Wi-Fi interfaces.  Ifconfig, space,  WLAN0, space, up.  Done.  Last one.  Ifconfig, space,  WLAN1, space, up.  Angela Moss, is that right?  Oh, you in the middle of a call?  I'm sorry.  I hate when people do that to me.  Go ahead. I can wait for you to finish.  # #  (GRUNTS)  (GROANING)  (DOOR SLAMS)  (WHEEZING, WHIMPERING)  Before you get all bent out of shape,  all I was trying to do was take those punches for you.  That's it.  Thank you.  (SOFT MUSIC PLAYING ON RADIO)  # #  So if I had to guess,  I'd say you didn't tell Principal Howard your side?  You know, it's okay to talk about stuff,  to share your side of things.  # #  I'm here to listen.  Always will be.  You don't feel like talking right now,  nobody's gonna force you.  # #  Hopefully you're okay with listening, though,  'cause  I actually have something to share,  something I'm pretty embarrassed about.  # #  Mr. Fitch, my supervisor  you met him, big bald guy,  looks like that guy from "The Simpsons"  that you don't like very much.  A few Fridays ago, he calls me into his office,  sits me down,  and immediately starts reading off a list of dates.  September 8th, August 29th, August 2nd.  Few more.  He goes on to tell me that because of these dates,  my contract is being terminated.  I was being let go.  I asked him why.  He didn't answer.  He just thanked me for my time, wished me luck,  excused himself, no further explanation.  What were the dates?  They were all appointments with a doctor.  I had to leave early for some blood work.  What? What do you mean?  I'm sick, Elliot.  That's what they're telling me.  For a while now.  I've been trying to keep it from everybody.  Your mom, Darlene,  work, you.  # #  Come on, kiddo.  World isn't gonna get rid of me that easily.  I'm gonna be okay.  I'm never gonna leave you.  Promise.  # #  Oh, come on.  Enough of this gloom and doom.  Why dwell on the past when we can take a peek into the future?  The site of my new gig.  That's where I'm taking you.  I'm opening a store  computers.  Everybody wants to have one.  We love 'em.  Figured it made sense.  You're gonna have a computer store?  Mm-hmm.  Can I work there?  Yeah, don't see why not.  In fact, I will give you your first assignment right now.  I want you to come up with a name.  # #  What? Stores need a name, right?  I can name it whatever I want?  All right, tell you what.  When we pull up,  the first thing that comes into your mind,  that'll be the name.  Really?  # #  Now, it's coming up here on the right.  Just keep those eyes on the road.  # #  Now, I don't have the keys yet,  so we can't go in.  I just closed on the place.  It's a bit of a fixer-upper, but it'll get there.  It's awesome.  Thought you'd like it.  Hey, uh, back there,  what we talked about,  let's just keep that between us, okay?  Don't even tell your mom.  Just our little secret.  # #  Good.  Now, you have work to do.  This place needs a name.  Now, remember,  the first thing that pops into your mind.  # #  (GASPS)
1 It's almost as if something's come alive.  My perfectly constructed loop.  At 8:00 a.m. breakfast with my friend Leon.  At 2:00 p.m. we'll check out a basketball game.  Two days a week I go to a church group.  You could use some practice.  If he's guilty,  I could destroy him at a terminal.  I told you not to look.  - Hi, Daddy. - Hi, pumpkin.  You were drunk, eating shrimp cocktail,  and it was raining  when you decided my mother would die?  If you want to change things,  perhaps you should try from within.  You want me to convince the class  to remove the contingency.  You're gonna give me exactly what I want in return.  I can't wipe the security footage  of you planting the femtocell.  Angela Moss.  You won't be able to give me  anything I want out of life.  (CLASSICAL MUSIC)    (CHUCKLING)  Oh, I think so.  Oh, oh, Tyrell, Joanna,  meet my silent partner in crime,  Sharon Knowles.  I've heard many good things.  - And her husband, Scott. - How are things?  Tyrell here is our new rising young star  with an eye on the CTO position.  But he's gonna have to wait  for Terry Colby's golf career to take off  or for an early stroke.  (LAUGHTER)  Those earrings are stunning.  Thank you.  Tyrell's always surprising me with little gifts.    (BABY BABBLING)    (SIRENS WAILING DISTANTLY)  (GENTLE ORCHESTRAL MUSIC)    Capitalistic pig!  - synca and correctins by Caio -  (BROODING ORCHESTRAL FLOURISH)    Hello.  I see you.  I recognize you.  I acknowledge your existence.  Let's talk.  Get to know who each other really are.  (PAINED BREATH)  All of this is said with  a simple act of a handshake  between two people.  It's not any different than a client  connecting with a server.  It all relies on that first handshake  and naturally grows from there  for most people.  For me,  I can't seem to learn the rules.  What happened back there?  When you protected me.  What was that? I've never seen that before.  That was what you needed.  Why were you trying to hide him?  - What are you talking about? - Tyrell.  (SCOFFS)  You were acting like he wasn't in the trunk.  But Tyrell was there.  I saw him.  I thought we moved past this.  Let's not go backwards.  (SIGHS)  What are you so afraid will happen  if you tell me the truth?  (SLAMS CONCRETE)  Why do you want to know so bad?  Why do you even fucking care?  I don't want to be in denial anymore.  I just want to accept what I did and move on.  Fine.  (SCOFFS)  I'll tell you.  (SIGHS)  What's the last thing that you remember?  Pop popcorn.  I-I remember the popcorn.  (DARK MUSIC)  Who the fuck?    I'm sorry, would you mind holding for a moment?  Thanks.  I'll make this quick.  I'm Agent DiPierro, FBI Cybercrime Division.  We co-opted one of your floors.  I was heading to my station when  I see you.  And it wasn't an "oops, wrong floor" kind of drop-in.  From where I was, it looked like you were coming from somewhere.  Now, this is nothing official so don't worry, but  I just had to ask,  what were you doing on a restricted floor?    Making plans  with Agent Thomas.  We were trying to decide drinks tomorrow or  lunch today.  Where'd you land?  Lunch.  A Greek place nearby.    How do you know each other?  I'm sorry, is there something else  I can help you with?  I just  really have to get back to this call before lunch.    You know, this is the honest,  "cards on the table" truth,  your story fascinates me.  The luck  (SCOFFS)  To leave Allsafe a week before the company gets hacked  and then to end up here at E Corp.  It's ironic given your history.  Okay, don't freak. She's got nothing.  If she did, you'd already be busted.  Well, I should quit babbling.  I was gonna have you drop by soon anyway.    Drop by?  For what?  Just to get a statement, answer a few questions, no big.  I'd be happy to.  I'm just really busy right now.    Whatever this is    It's not you.    Okay, final command,  ifconfig,  space,  wlan1, space, up.  (KEYS CLACK)    And there it is.  What?  We just owned the FBI.    I did it, didn't I?  It was either us  or him.  How did I do it?  Well, you  the guy was fucking batshit.  He was raving about  killing some woman and  the wonder of it all.  I mean, we were gonna be next.  How did I do it?  After I ran the scripts,  he went off on us being gods.    The popcorn,  that's where Darlene said she hid that gun.  And I didn't want to, but  I shot him.  (GENTLE AMBIENT MUSIC)  No.    I shot him.    Harder.  Harder.  (BED SPRINGS GIVE)    (BARELY AUDIBLE) Harder.  I told my friends you're coming.  You know that can't happen.  I thought this was our celebration.  We love each other. What's to hide?  (SCOFFS) Derek.  I mean, how many times do you get to turn 30?  Either come to my party tonight as my girlfriend  or we're done.    Pull up two hours ago.  (MOUSE CLICKING)  (INDISTINCT CHATTER)  (MOUSE CLICKING)  (SIGHS) Last week, any day.  (MOUSE CLICKING)  The entire archive's corrupt.  Call the network team.  You guys just got hacked.  I'd sweep the 23rd floor and check Angela Moss's computer.  You won't find anything I'm sure she erased all traces  but check anyway.  Where you going?  It's Fourth of July tomorrow.  I'm gonna find a barbeque to be miserable at.  (THE CRAMPS' "GARBAGEMAN" PLAYS)    You ain't no punk, you punk   (OVER TV) Trash pile-ups have now become  a real epidemic in the city.  Due to the credit crisis brought on by Five/Nine,  many private businesses cannot afford  waste management services,  which has sparked a cottage industry of  roadside garbage burning at discounted rates.  The Taxi and Limousine Commission asks that  drivers now accept Ecoin.  Per the Taxi and Limousine Commission,  payment can be made via mobile phone.  Just download the Ecoin app from the Play Store  or App Store, scan the QR code  once you reach your destination,  and the payment will be withdrawn  from your Ecoin Wallet.  (SONG CONTINUES OVER TAXI RADIO)  You had me worried, not answering my calls  after all that went down.  I'm gonna go.  You weren't the target.  Cisco was just trying  Stop.  I know you already put the rest together, so  no more smokescreens.  Okay, ask me anything, I'm an open book.  I owe you that.  You guys always thought that you were smarter than me.  But come on.  You never actually hid it that well.  Every Halloween,  when we were kids,  you and Elliot always made me watch that shitty scary movie.  It was so bad.  And all these years later,  I'd kind of forgotten about it.  Even when the masks started popping up in those videos.  I didn't place it at first.  (SIRENS WAILING)  Maybe I did.  Maybe I didn't want to.  I mean, come on,  that's crazy, right?  That you guys would  (SIRENS WAILING)  Had enough alone time down there  to get your head right and do what needs to be done?  Speak up.  Yeah.  You believe him?  Yeah.  Okay.  This is how it's gonna go.  (OMINOUS MUSIC)  You gonna sit your ass right here  until you do what you got to do.  Once the site's up,  you gonna crawl back into your hole  until we're sure this baby's purring like a kitten.      (MOUSE CLICKING, KEYS CLACKING)  How long is this gonna take?  A few hours.  Once he gets what he wants  Right now he needs me.  So that makes us safe.    (KEYS CLACKING)  (DOOR OPENS)  (DOOR CLOSES)    What's with the looks?  Mm.    And this is happening tomorrow?  Mm-hmm.  (DOOR UNLOCKS, OPENS)  (FOOTFALL)  Hello, Derek.  You never showed up.  Told you what would happen if you didn't show up.  No-no-no-no-no, that's not gonna work anymore.  You've been messing with me for way too long.  I should've known  somebody that I met working at a stuck-up E Corp party  would be bad news.  Meeting you at that party changed something for me.  I'd be lost right now without you.  What you want,  I want it too.  I was busy tonight because I was hassling my lawyer on holiday  to do this.  It's my birthday gift to you.  Holy shit.  We're getting more traffic than ever.  Says our Bitcoin intake doubled since we've been up.  200,000 we could have made while we were down,  that's on you, boy.  It's time to go back to your cage, shitbrick.  What about a game?  Old time's sake.  Give me and Elliot a minute.  Wait outside.  All right, set it up.  Thank you.  For what?  When we first met, I thought I was helping you.  I thought I was gonna be your savior.  I didn't tell you about my wife.  She was so smart.  Way smarter than me.  She was like you,  real good with computers.  That's what she did for a living.  So when she had this idea to do a site,  it sounded good to me.  I don't think she ever meant it to go where it went.  She was wanting to make some extra scratch.  But the thing grew so fast,  it took on a life of its own.  And the money,  well  We're talking about the type of money that  makes you question right and wrong.  So, you know,  we made a deal.  Decided we'd let the market dictate  what was sold on the site.  And we wouldn't look.  She was better at the denial than me.  It ate at me,  all the things I imagined were going on.  I feared the worst.  But I still didn't look.  (OMINOUS MUSIC)  Not until you came along.    After I found out what was on there,  what we did to you,  what we did to RT,  it was weak.  Way back when,  when I said it was about stumbling,  I was wrong.    I should've taken a fucking stand.    You are my answer.  (LAUGHS SOFTLY)  It's not the other way around.    So thank you.  (EXHALES)  (SNIFFS)    (SIGHS)    How much time do I have?    Come on, man.  We both knew exactly what you were gonna do  when I let you go back on that computer.    With their response time,  I would guess they have us surrounded by now.    You better get out before they get up here then.  World champion chess master Emanuel Lasker  once said,  "When you see a good move  look for a better one."    Elliot.    Be careful.  (SIGHS)    (DOOR OPENS)    I gave Ray the chance to make the right move.  And he left himself wide open to me.  (SIGHS)  (SIRENS WAILING DISTANTLY)  (BIRDS CHIRPING)  (AMBIENT INDUSTRIAL MUSIC)  When I completed the migration,  I also took it upon myself to open the site  to more than just TOR traffic.  Stay right here and don't move.  Just had to index it on a few search engines  and with the added touch of adverts  on the top advertising sites,  and now it's accessible to any average scumbag  that Googles "Thai girls for sale."  Didn't take long for the FBI to catch on  after I emailed them an anonymous tip.  Mr. Robot was a part of me that I created because of my pain.  So now we have a chance to start again.  Our handshake negotiated us as partners.  (POLICE RADIO CHATTER)  (INDISTINCT TALKING)  The House will come to order.  (GLASS SHATTERS) (THUD)  (CROWD COMMOTION)  (GENTLE PIANO MUSIC)    There has been much mystery  surrounding the vandalism and castration  of the Wall Street bull.  That mystery was solved when  the missing anatomy of the bull  crashed through a skylight of the House chamber.  Police, FBI, and the Department of Homeland Security  have begun a full-fledged manhunt  for those parties responsible.  You haven't answered my calls since the weekend.  As you can see, it's busy.  Ever since this bailout fiasco yesterday,  these kits are flying off the shelves.  The, uh, end of civilization is near,  so this is gonna have to wait.  I can settle the lawsuit.  Stay out of that.  The lawyers are handling it.  E Corp will settle.  But there's a contingency with the independent inspections.  If we drop it  I'm not discussing this with you.  If you drop the independent inspections,  they will settle.  Did did your boss put you up to this?  Look at what's happening.  Who knows if this company will be around long enough  to see this case through?  Drop the contingency. You'll get your money.  The inspections are there for a reason.  Do you want what happened to your mom  to happen again?  I'll make sure the inspections go forward internally.  (SCOFFS)  Is that how they're suckering you?  Trust me, they value me over there.  (LAUGHS)  You laugh,  but they respect me.  I don't know who this person is who's in front of me,  but I'm not agreeing to any of this.  I don't trust them.  And to be honest?  I don't trust you.  Besides, you think anyone else is gonna want to  sign on to whatever you're selling?  It's not just my vote,  it's the whole class.  You need 2/3.  I already got the signatures.  That's the trick about money.  Banks care more about it than anything else.  What exactly is in this for you?  You aren't getting the money. I am.  You know that, right?  So I'll ask you one more time.  Why did you come here?  Because you certainly didn't give a shit about my opinion.  This was just a courtesy.  Two weeks and it's done.  (INDISTINCT CHATTER)  Now this Ray thing got everyone talking.  I didn't have anything to do with that.  Lying ain't your friend right now, cuz.  Everyone got their eyes on you.  Half of them love you.  Half of them want to kill you.  Other half just want to twist your shit up.  But you know, it's that last half  I'm worried about for you, bro.  Hey.  Little man, book it real quick for me.  I'm good here.  What's that?  Didn't hear you.  You heard.  (SCOFFS)  Fucking  bravery  is contagious.  I suggest you talk to your boy.  He's fine where he is.  Ray's site.  I had 800 Bitcoins in my wallet.  Now, all of a sudden, I got no access.  Can't even make new sales 'cause the site's down.  All of this is on you.  So the way I see it,  you're paying me back.  We'll get some one-on-one  later on.  (PLAYERS CHATTERING)  Just remember, cuz,  sitting under the Sword of Damocles.  Out of the blue,  I received a call from my lawyer.  Seems the contingency on our biggest lawsuit  was miraculously dropped.  Care to explain?  It's what you wanted, isn't it?  I remember telling you  exactly the opposite.  You just didn't want to ask for it.  But it is what you wanted.  You gonna take the offer then?  Well, it's not for me to say,  officially, but  despite the fact that we're hemorrhaging money  at the moment,  settling this would be a lot cheaper than  dealing with the legal expense.  Can I ask why it was so important for you  to drop this contingency?  You protecting some  evil, secret agenda?  Aren't we all protecting our  evil, secret agendas?  In that case,  here's mine.  One of the things that Terry Colby  said to me when I took this job  was I could make changes from within.  I want my position moved  to the Risk Management Department.  There's a manager position available.  And even though I may lack the experience,  I think you know I can more than make up for it  with drive  and quick learning.  That's how you choose to squander the capital  you've just earned  You're aware that's a  lateral move?  It's what I want.  And I am asking.  It's my birthday today.  Did you know that?  No.  Hm.  - I thought - No, no  Don't believe what you read online.  Today  is my actual birthday.  I never share the real one with anyone.  Some things I like to keep to myself.  Happy birthday then.  (CHUCKLES)  Would you like to  celebrate  with me?  Tonight?  No.  Well, maybe next year.  Wither thou goest to possess them  and thou succeedest them,  and dwellest in their land.  Amen.  ALL: Amen.  I wanted to tell you I'm sorry.  For my outburst last month.  Can you let go of me, please?  I know you're afraid,  but the fear you have is a right one.  It means you'll be forever vigilant.  You want to know how I know?  I've seen you talking to Him.  Not out loud, but I could tell.  It's written all over your face.  It's not crazy, Elliot,  it's very normal.  You've seen me talking to him?  Yes.  But you don't have to keep it such a secret.  When you let Jesus into your heart,  He'll always listen.  Tell you what,  I'll give you some alone time.  (AMBIENT MUSIC)    I need your help.  I've been lost these past few weeks.  Since the whole Ray thing.  I need to finish what I started.  With Evil Corp.  But I don't know what to do.    Why did you first start listening to me?  When I sent you that note  on the server at Evil Corp,  something inside you told you to listen.  And you did.  Followed me off the subway,  came to fsociety,  and then you  not me  led us to hack Evil Corp.  I didn't force you to do any of it.  It was all you.  Your choice.  Truth is,  I just followed your lead.  People want to follow you, son.  Why?  Same reason why you led the entire world  into a revolution.  Because you are a leader.    I don't want to be a leader.  You asked me how to finish this.  That's what you need to do.  You need to lead.  (PHONE RINGING)  And not unlike your floor,  coffee machine, file room.  People in this bullpen, these are your  risk management coordinators,  you'll be working with this team.  Put out risk reports, analyses,  and you report everything out to me.  After Five/Nine, almost all of our time  is dedicated to helping the crisis response team.  That's what we do here.  Our internal investigation team  make recommendations to management  about ways to  address the crisis and course correct.  Need you to be smart.  Think outside the box and be discreet.  You get in; you get out;  assess the situation quickly;  find answers;  figure out ways to limit damage.  I'm giving you access  to the case we're working on now.  It's a class action lawsuit brewing in Flint  over water contamination.  Nothing public yet, but  could be big  first quarter, 2016.  Do I just go into the file server  to access that?  I'll have I  run you through everything.  Setup, Outlook, Calendar.  (DISTANT INDISTINCT CHANTING)  You knew Gideon Goddard?  We worked together on a couple projects  when he was a vendor.  It's terrible what happened to him.  Well, why don't you go ahead and get yourself up to speed?  I'll check in once a week.  Let me know if you need anything.  (OUTSIDE CHANTING CONTINUES)  Can I sit in on the daily debrief meeting?  (SIGHS) Look,  that's, uh,  that's a director-level meeting.  We don't really invite managers to that.  If I could just sit and listen  it might help me get up to speed faster.  I want to make sure I can add value  as soon as possible.  All right.  It's later this afternoon.  I'll send you an invite with the details.  Did you get in  okay this morning with these protestors out here?  (INDISTINCT CHANTING)  (CHUCKLES) It's crazy, right?  I was on a route to cure myself of Mr. Robot.  The regiment was supposed to be that path.  (TENSE MUSIC)  I never thought the regiment would be the thing  that would lead me right back where I started.  People always told me growing up that  it's never about the destination.  It's about the journey.  But what if the destination is you?  What if it's always you?    Hey!  (MUFFLED) Help!  (MUFFLED SCREAMING)  (GROANS)  I heard you got a problem.  You know what else your problem is?  Too much courage.  Just like your nigger friend.  He might tell you it's a good thing,  but it ain't always.  It makes you have errors in judgment.  (STRAINS)  But I'm gonna do you a solid.  I'm gonna fix that courage problem of yours.  (BLOWS LANDING)  (BOTH GRUNTING)  Okay.  We should break that brave, little soul of yours, homey.  (CHUCKLES)  You could've avoided this if you'd just given me my money.  Think about that.  Think about it.  - Think about it. - (GROANING)  No, no!  (PAINED GROANS)  Gonna get a letter on Tuesday.  Do what it says.  - (GRUNTS) - (SCREAMS)  Hey, yo, man,  when you see Whiterose,  make sure you say I did you good.  (GROANS)  I'll be rooting for you, cuz.  Always.  Usually, they feed us.  It's one of the only reasons  to come to these meetings.  Should we go ahead and start?  It doesn't look like Susan's gonna make it.  Is there any reason to have this meeting without her?  The economy must really be in the shitter  if Susan Jacobs finally decided to take her vacation days.  First order of business  is the small independent loan companies we're servicing.  I'm surprised they're not suing us  for breach of the uptime clauses.  I have three class actions on  that point alone in my region.  Contractual damage on uptime are minimal.  I'm not even worried about it.  We'll settle.  But we should discuss those when Susan comes back.  Maybe it would be helpful if I put together a summary  of how we've handled past cases.  To see if there are any patterns that might  help us figure out how to address this issue.  If we pull milestone cases  like Dakota Fracking and  Washington Township,  I could put together a summary briefing.  All I would need is access to the files  and then I could get working on that right away.  (SIGHS)  You know what?  There's not much we can do here today.  Food never came, Susan's out.  Let's adjourn.  Didn't I just say that two minutes ago?  We're really leaving before the food?  I said adjourned.  I know who you are.  You did what you did  to get a job here.  You sucked whoever's dick to get transferred here.  And, frankly, I don't really care.  This is a favor to Price.  You know what he told me,  when I asked him how I should deal with you?  He said, and I quote,  "However you want."  Enjoy the shrimp cocktail.  This is good news, don't you think?  But you're not happy about it.  I'm not sure.  When did you get it?  This morning.  How are your interactions with him?  For the first time,  we trust each other.  I help him, and he helps me.  Since I've been at my mom's,  I wanted to get rid of him.  But you were right.  You can't destroy a part of yourself.  Elliot, I need to ask you a question.  Where do you think you are right now?  What do you mean?  Elliot,  you know you haven't been staying with your mother, right?  (OMINOUS MUSIC)  I know.  (ALARM BUZZING)  (INDISTINCT CHATTER)  When you get released,  I hope you continue seeing me in my office.  I think it's important we maintain our regular schedule.  Don't you agree?  Yes.  (GENTLE POP MUSIC)  Mr. Robot was right.    Control can sometimes be an illusion.  But sometimes you need illusion to gain control.    Fantasy is an easy way to give meaning to the world,  to cloak our harsh reality with escapist comfort.    After all,  isn't that why we surround ourselves with so many screens?  (UNINTELLIGIBLE)  So we can avoid seeing?  So we can avoid each other?  I don't think I'm ready to  talk about it just yet.  So we can avoid truth?    I'm sorry for not telling you everything.  But I needed this in order to get better.    Please don't be mad too long.  This will be the last time I keep things from you.  I promise.    I know what you're thinking,  and no.  I didn't lie to you.  See you in the morning.  All of this really happened.  This was just my way of coping with it.  But now, I'd like it if  we could trust each other again.  Let's shake on it.  - synca and correctins by Caio -
1 What if this all went away?  The money, this city, all of it?  The world is filled with stupid people,  and I get paid a lot to be smart.  Susan Jacobs,  the general counsel at E Corp.  Madam executioner.  [screams]  The tracking on her phone is working.  How long you think she's gonna stay away for?  Long enough.  Have you ever considered which part of our scheme motivates you?  The FBI announced today Tyrell Wellick and fsociety  engaged in this attack.  Are you alone?  That's called a femtocell.  So we can get every FBI email,  text message, and document.  We just owned the FBI.  They have something called Operation Berenstain.  Possibly heavy surveillance.  [grunting] Ah!  They're trying to cover their tracks,  and right now, we're the tracks.  [jazz music]  [door opens, bell jingles]    [indistinct chatter]  Oh, uh, go ahead.  Oh, whole milk.  Must be some kind of revolutionary.  Uh, no I, um  Just 'cause everyone's into this almond coconut shit nowadays.  It's, um  not  [clears throat]    [sighs]  [indistinct chatter]  What kind of phone do you have?  Oh, uh, this?  Um yeah, it's it's a Nexus.  Yeah, I'm an Android guy.  Uh, hate Apple.  Think iPhones are for pussies. [chuckles]  What are you on?  iPhone.  [softly] Right.  You think they suck so much, but they're faster.  Uh  [coughing] Bullshit.  I mean, if you're talking boot times,  then it's Android all day,  and if you're talking net speed,  Chrome on Android has better HTML5 compliance  and runs JavaScript so much faster than Safari.  No competition.  Oh, yeah?  Prove it.  Go to this benchmarking website.  We'll compare speeds.  Okay.  Game on.  Ugh, are you on the Wi-Fi here?  Yes. [sighs]  It's slow as shit.  Agreed. It's hit or miss.  There's another Ron's Coffee Shop.  Oh, 14th Street. Yeah, I know.  Everyone always Reddits about that one.  Crazy fast.  You can practically stream 4K videos on your laptop.  Why aren't you there now, then?  You got me.  iPhones suck.  [clears throat] I'm, uh, meeting someone.  What about you?  - Same. - Cool, cool, cool.  Oh, the old malicious browser benchmark trick.  I see you already own this newb's whole system.  I like it.  Didn't your mom ever tell you not to surf websites  that have an embedded Stagefright exploit?  Can't drop the proverbial soap  around a black-hat bitch like this, Mobley.  Darlene, I  I thought I was meeting Elliot.  Me too.  Relax, kids, this isn't the stranger danger episode.  Elliot couldn't make it, but no need to connip.  I'll download you.  Well, I'm not gonna shout.  Get over here, tubs.  Don't  Before we start, he wanted me to read you guys something.  Now, keep in mind these are his words, not mine.  He's a touch melodramatic.  "What I'm about to tell you is top secret.  "A conspiracy bigger than all of us.  "There's a powerful group of people out there  "that are secretly running the world.  "I'm talking about the guys no one knows about,  "the guys that are invisible,  the top 1% of the top 1%"   What's with the looks?  Mm.    And this is happening tomorrow?  Mm-hmm.  [dramatic music]      Your passcode has been confirmed.  Please wait while you're joined to the conference.  -[line beeps] - Hello?  -[line beeps] - Hello.  Hey, Douglas Gitelman, WFO.  -[line beeps] - Lorin Connor, FBI New York.  Hi, guys, Michael Kirkpatrick, New York.  Anyone else on?  - Just waiting on you. - [line beeps]  Hello, all. Everyone on?  It's Kirby, Megan, and Zach from the seventh floor.  Yup, all here.  Great. Don't have a ton of time.  It is the nation's birthday, after all,  so let's get down to brass tacks.    E Corp, Google, AT&T, Uber,  Apple, Verizon, Facebook  all 23 of these listed companies have been complicit  in aiding the FBI in Operation Berenstain.  [tape crackling]  Jesus, what is that noise?  Okay, tape's busted.  Just grab another one and we'll do it again.  Yeah.  [soft dramatic music]  Okay. Fuck it.  I'll keep it simple.  [clears throat]  Happy Fourth of July, fellow Americans.  On this patriotic holiday, we wanted to remind you,  under the Universal Declaration of Human Rights,  privacy is a right.  Or at least it used to be.  Listen closely to a classified conference call  we recently intercepted  between the FBI agents  that so earnestly promise you  fidelity, bravery, and integrity.            Come on, Kirby, screw the 3 million.  They got us the 17 we're building our case around now.      Doesn't help that Comey hasn't signed off on it.  The fact that we're keeping it from him  does not bode well for your case.  He's an uptight choirboy.  No one's gonna be crying over how we catch these terrorists.  I guarantee that.  The FBI has 3 million of you innocent citizens  under surveillance for no reason.  Their tyrannical rape of our private data ends now.  FBI, be warned.  Your access to our lives is officially denied.  Pursue us at your own peril.  We do not compromise.  We will not back down.  We will destroy you.  We are  fsociety.  [sustained beep]  [dramatic music]    [faintly] Smartphone out there  It's never going to be  Come on, Kirby, screw the 3 million  Video's up.  [keyboard keys clicking] - 16 in the code name case.  Right, 16. One's deceased.  It doesn't help that Comey hasn't signed off on it.  Stop listening to that. It's making you more paranoid.  What about this, um, code name case thing?  They said they have 16 suspects under surveillance.  Video's getting hits. It's starting to get reposted.  They said one of the suspects  is dead.  They gotta be talking about Romero, right?  We have to be on that list.  I uploaded the full Berenstain call  and transcript to WikiLeaks.  Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa.  Come on, slow your roll, bro. No one's going anywhere.  We gotta monitor the fallout of the video  before anyone makes a move.  Exposing their program  is gonna shut down the investigation.  I don't care anymore.  I'm officially done.  You don't wanna do this.  You mean the, uh the Dark Army  doesn't want me to do this, bro?  No, no, no, no, I mean you.  'Cause when the Dark Army finds out the FBI nails you,  - which they will - Mm.  - It's lights out. - [door closes]  No questions asked. You feel me?  Hey, stop. [door closes]  You really think you can force me to stay?  Without a doubt.  Guys!    [indistinct chatter]  [soft piano music playing]    [singing off-key]  One of us sitting   At my window   Happy Fourth of July,  fellow Americans.  On this patriotic holiday,  we wanted to remind you,  under the Universal Declaration of Human Rights,  - privacy is a right - Yo.  We're still on a date, remember?  Why is this video such a big deal to you?    I'm gonna get another drink.  [indistinct chatter]  [woman singing indistinctly]    Hey, hey there, Ang.  Steve?  What are you doing here?  Oh, karaoke.  You know, gotta please the missus.  Missed you at your dad's barbecue today.  Yeah, I couldn't make it.  Right. Yeah, right.  You gotta be busy these days.  Congrats on everything.  Still, though, that's gotta be tough on your father, though.  Having to watch while you bow down  to those bastards that killed your mother.  [scoffs]  That can't be an easy pill for him to swallow.  [chuckles]  For you, though, swallowing's not really a problem,  now, is it? [chuckles]  Just, uh, who the hell do you think you are, anyway?    [cheers and applause]  You're a plumber.  Right, Steve?  You've had, what,  60 years at life?  That's the best you can come up with?  Literally cleaning shit for a living?  I'm 27,  and I've got a six-figure salary  at the biggest conglomerate in history,  and I'm just getting started.  That's who I am.  - Don't do this! - [zip ties rustling]  Now you're only at class B  felony kidnapping charges.  Don't bump it up to class A.  Shut the fuck up!  [dramatic music]  [breathing heavily]  You have no idea the shit you're in.    One of us should have been watching the GPS.  This is some next-level shit, man.  Okay, we didn't have a choice.  We couldn't let her go to the cops.  Yeah, well, she can ID all of us now.  She saw everything, our whole setup.  - She knows who we are. - Help!  Hello? I know you can see me!  God damn it. Trenton, go shut her up.  Go!  Fuck it.  I say we take our chances out there.  Let her go. Take off.  - Go our separate ways. - Yeah, right.  Then there'll be a manhunt with our faces on it.  Yeah, if there isn't one already.  Hello!  [door opens]    I need the bathroom.  Not yet.  I kinda can't control it.  Let me check downstairs first.  I really need to go.  It'll only take a second.    You guys don't know what the hell you're doing,  do you?  You're Muslim?  Is that what all this is about?  ISIS or something?  You're all a bunch of goddamn animals.  Make it quick.  [grunts, shouts]  We were all there. You heard the call.  They have a secret surveillance program on us.  Jesus, you're a broken record.  [grunts] Man, you wanna live in denial?  Go ahead, okay? Go right ahead.  All of you can't accept the fact that maybe we fucked up.  Okay? Take a look at the city.  It's going to shit, man.  Now, first it'll be blackouts.  Then it'll be the National Guard.  - Either we go now or - Jesus!  [footsteps approaching] Keep it together!  Um  Darlene.  This isn't exactly what I meant by "shut her up."  Okay, well  maybe our problem solved itself.  Oh, so, what, we just let her die?  We need to get her to a hospital.  No.  No, not until we're sure she won't talk.  Tie her up.  That's a nasty head wound.  Okay, well, then we don't have much time.  To do what?  Own her.  ["Everybody Wants to Rule the World" playing on piano]    Welcome to your life   There's no turning back   Grab her phone.  Even while we sleep   Got it.  I'll jump on her laptop.  We will find you   Acting on your   Best behavior   Turn your back on Mother Nature   She's got three email accounts on her phone.  Wants to rule the world     Not seeing anything on her corporate or Hotmail.    It's my own desire   There's gotta be something we can blackmail her with.  Just keep looking.  It's my own remorse   Help me to decide   Help me make   The most of freedom and of pleasure   Nothing ever lasts forever   Everybody wants   I got into her Gmail. Don't see anything in here.  Did you check for any hidden partitions?  - Obviously. - I'll check the office.  The light won't find you   Holding hand while the walls   Come crumblin' down   - Okay, anything? - No, nothing.  She's a lawyer. She's gotta have dirt.  Wait, I see Yahoo Mail in her web history.  Maybe we do a pass on her drive?  Try to recover any deleted files.  Had to fade it   Everybody wants to rule the world   Maybe we could target Yahoo's server logs  and cross-reference any incoming connections from here.  Might lead to an account name and password hash.  - I could use bash bug. - Or what about this?    [song ends]  [applause]  What if we do find something on her, huh?  What then?  Cazadores on the rocks, please.  [rock music playing]  I love that song.  You really have a desire to rule the world?    Oh, my desires go way beyond that.    Pretty sure my daughter's older than you.  What about your granddaughter?  [laughs]  No, no, she'll be ten tomorrow.  I'm taking her to the zoo, actually.    [cell phone buzzes] Thanks.  Well, better get back to my colleagues.  You could do that,  or you could stay here,  talk to me.    I had nothing to do with Five/Nine.  I'm in finance, for fuck 's sake.  You think I wanted to implode the economy?  Come o  No, I agree with Mr. Jones here.  I've been scratching my head on this one,  but evidence is evidence,  and holiday or not, I had to follow up on this.  Found this incriminating little guy  at a critical location tied to the Five/Nine hack.  The shell's microstamp leads right to your client's gun.  The gun that he had in the city of New York illegally,  I might add.  [whispering inaudibly]  Immunity is on the table  in exchange for a name.  That's all I care about.  Let's keep this friendly.  [gasps]  [exhales deeply]  [sighs]  I need a doctor.  Yeah, it's pretty bad.  Nice place you got.  Comfy.  Is your place in Greenwich this cush?  I worked hard for what I have.  You know, I'm glad  you came home,  but my friends  are freaking out.  Came up with this neat little plan  to blackmail you for your silence.  Hacked your emails.  We got some good stuff too.  Nice little Petraeus email scam you got going on there.  You shouldn't get hot and heavy  with your presiding judges, Suze.  I'm sure you're aware that's illegal,  but  I know you don't care about things like that.  You'd slime your way around it  and fuck us over just like you did my dad.  Who's dead, by the way.  But you  You aged very well.  The first time I saw you, I was four.  Still remember it.  On the news  in the courtroom when they cleared E Corp  of all the bullshit they put my family through.  And you were in the back  behind a sea of suits,  and you laughed.  It was so quick, no one even noticed.  No one but me.  Four-year-old little me.  So  I'm happy  I get to look you in the eye.  I have taken down your company,  taken over your home,  and now  I have you.  Okay.  [exhales] So you got me.  [exhales]  Where do we go from here?  I'm sure we can figure something out.  [scoffs]  I already have.  - [electricity crackles] - [grunts]  [dramatic music]    [breathing shakily]    [breathing heavily]  [laughs quietly]  [laughing intensifies]  She just  flipped out.  I was just trying to scare her back.  [soft dramatic music]  It was just a stun gun.  No.  No, no, she  No, she had a heart condition.  I mean, there were lots of emails  from her doctor.  You di  you didn't see any of those?    No.    Just go.  You two don't need to be here.  We'll wipe down the house and figure it out.    [door closes]  [door closes]      You think she actually  Has to be self-defense.  What's the plan?  We can't stay here.  Who knows who's gonna be waiting for you at home?  Dark Army, FBI, cops.  I can't leave my family.  If you had that much to lose,  you shouldn't have done this in the first place.  But I did this for them.  What we did was colossally fucking stupid,  and we can't afford not to realize that anymore.  Peace, Trent.  Yeah, I'm on my way.  [subway door chimes]    All right, my vote,  we leave it here,  wipe our prints, and just make a run for it.  We can't.  The others'll be back soon. They'll find her.  Why don't I just just text them  and tell them the place is burned?  Can't take the risk they won't listen  and come back anyway.  We need to get rid of it.  [scoffs]  We ain't doing shit.  I'll see if my guys can take care of it.  Okay, no offense, but I don't trust them either.  [sighs]  This is my responsibility.  [scoffs]  Well, if this is the part of the conversation  where you start throwing out ideas  like acid and wood chippers,  I ain't obliging.  This isn't a conversation.  We need to do what we always do when we go  into full wipe-down mode after a hack.  [dramatic funky music]    [indistinct police radio chatter]    Hurry up.  [dogs whining]  You know you screwed me last time?  You let all the dogs go.  I almost got fired.  What was that all about anyway?  Not like it matters. They all ended up back here.  So as a matter of policy,  it's gonna cost you double this time.  Double?  Wait, we don't have double, man.  We we barely pull out cash.  What about Ecoin?  It's worth more than cash anyway.  Pull out your phone.  What the fuck is in there?  I'm paying you enough for privacy.  [cell phone buzzes]  It's done.  All yours. [sighs]  Susan donated them from her cold storage.  It's not as if she can use them anymore.  She can pay for her own funeral.  [straining] No  [grunts] Oh, no, easy, easy, wait.  [grunts] Just move it  [grunts] God.  [both breathing heavily]  Rug's too big.  No shit.  We need to take her out.  [exhales]  This is some traumatizing shit.  You know that?  [body thuds] [both grunt]  [fire whooshing]  [soft dramatic music]    Hey.  Come to my place tonight.  Come on, let's get some sleep.  You shouldn't be alone right now.  I didn't know I could do that.  You did what you had to do.  No, that's the thing.  I don't feel bad.  I always knew there was a part of me  that wanted to do this to her for what she did, but  I figured when the time came,  something would stop me  But it didn't.  Hey, come on. Look, you're just in shock.  All right? Look, come on.  Just let's get some sleep.  Okay?  [intense music]    I did what you say for me.  Okay, I used key under mat. I put pizza inside.  No one inside. No one.  You didn't see anything weird or  No, no one inside.  No one inside.  Okay, fine.  [softly] That's $20.  Wait.  Uh  ca can I can I have the other pizza?  It's another delivery, man.  - It's another delivery. - [scoffs]  Look, give me the other pizza. I'm fucking nervous, man.    Have you guys ever thought about moving?  What's this?  Maybe we should move somewhere cheaper.  [clicks tongue, scoffs]  I don't think the city is safe anymore,  not with everything going on.  Don't be silly. Moving is impossible right now.  The bank is fighting us on the deed.  It's a mess. They're not letting anyone sell.  In fact, we may be at a bigger risk  of losing the money we did invest in this home.  But we can find another place.  [objects clatter]    Dinner's almost ready.  I'll check outside.    [knock at door]  [pounding at door]  [tires squealing]    Sir, open up. FBI.    Sir, if you don't open the door,  we're gonna break it down.    [door buzzing]  Mr. Markesh, we didn't  mean for you to be waiting here this long,  but with all the bureaucracy and red tape,  it's getting a little bonkers around here.  Yeah, well, I've been waiting here all night.  What the fuck is going on?  I feel your pain. [chuckles]  I've been stuck here all night too.  [laughs] It's depressing, isn't it?  [chuckles]  Here's what we're gonna do.  We're gonna talk, and all you have to do is listen.  Because, believe it or not, Mr. Markesh,  you could be real instrumental  in helping to solve this Five/Nine case.  [scoffs]  Leslie Romero.  Forgive me, hon, you do know your friend was found murdered?  My heart goes out to you. It's very unfortunate.  I went over to his mother's after everything went down.  I wanted to offer my condolences,  and I took a quick look around while I was over there.  That's when I found this.  An end of the world party featuring DJ Mobley.  I'm not an EDM fan myself,  but a quick search on the wayback machine,  and guess what we found all the way from 2003.  You.  An Angelfire page that you created  from back in the day.  Your very own DJ Mobley fan page.  In fact, curiously enough,  you were the only one that ever created a fan page of this guy.  Must have really spoken to you.  [chuckles softly] Trust me, I feel the same way  about "Romy and Michele's High School Reunion."  But like you, I found myself very much in the minority.  So a big fan.  Obscure DJ with a unique name.  Seems like the perfect recipe  for how a hacker handle gets born.  Here's the deal:  we want Tyrell Wellick,  not Tyrell Wellick's DJ.  Your friend is dead, and that's a sad thing,  but at this point, the best thing that could happen  would be if there's something you can tell me  names, people,  any information at all  that you can give us from that party that would help.  Lawyer.  I want a lawyer.  Do you have any evidence on this guy?  This is not the strategy we have implemented.  Top down, not bottom up.  We needed to get some traction.  This is a way.  He's a minor player that won't blow our strategy.  He'll start flushing some of these guys out.  Are you not watching the news?  We are in a world of shit  because of this leaked conference call.  The OPR is going to be coming down on us any day.  It's all over the Senate Intelligence Hearings.  The deputy director,  assistant director of Cyber Division  and the EAD are all getting fired.  Comey's about to announce that Operation Berenstain is dead,  and you just held this guy for 12 hours  for no reason.  You have to think about how this looks, Dom.  [sighs]  Whatever paranoia you've put into him is done,  just by picking him up.  Let him go.  [indistinct chatter]  [sighs]  [soft dramatic music]        I'll be back later.    [indistinct speech on TV]  I lost her.  I don't know what I did wrong.  I thought she was into me.  Don't let it get you in the dumps.  Getting into the mind of a woman,  it's the toughest route for even the best sources.  I can't get into it right now.  This fsociety video's blowing up in our face.  That's some fucked-up shit you guys did.  It's got me all paranoid.  How do I know you guys aren't watching me too?  We look like fools. Shit's worse than Snowden.  Privacy rights activist Edward Snowden.  - [sighs] - When you say I don't care  - about the right to privacy - Speak of the devil.  Because I have nothing to hide,  that's no different than saying  I don't care about freedom of speech  because I have nothing to say.  Despite the cybersecurity breach  in obtaining the information  on Operation Berenstain,  the controversy over privacy rights  has prompted calls for greater government transparency.  - Advocates are demanding - Look, I'm done with this.  You know, she's stone cold anyway, Dom.  I'm not gonna lie  I kinda got hurt.  She never talked about fsociety  or her old friends from back in the day?  She hasn't given up anything since you first put me on her,  and she bailed on me for some old dude at the bar.  A contact?  I think she's just into old dudes.  Paying employees only a portion of their wages.  In a statement, UWUA leaders claimed  [shower running]  Cisco?  Cisco?  Yo, what's up?  [dramatic music]    What's up?  How long you been up?  I just got up.  I jumped straight in the shower.  I'll be out in a sec, though.  You all right?  Yeah, fine.    [suspenseful music]              [door opens, bell jingles]    You all right?  Yo, what the fuck?
1 Every relationship's a power struggle.  Some of us need to be controlled.  Why did you first start listening to me?  I just followed your lead.  - I don't want to be a leader. - I want my position moved  to the risk management department.  If we pull milestone cases like Washington Township  There's not much we can do here today.  Closing the plant is not an option.  I'm being pressured to resign. Not doing anything to help.  What did you say your name was?  - I'm Ollie. - This is a rubber ducky.  It'll pull all cached passwords.  It can get every email, text message, and document.  You guys just got hacked.  - (ELECTRICITY SURGES) - (GRUNTS)  - (TAPE WHIRRING) - Jesus, what is that noise?  Tape's busted. Grab another one.  All of you can't accept the fact  that maybe we fucked up.  Who knows who's gonna be waiting for you at home?  Dark Army, FBI, cops.  He hacked me and stole my dog on top of it.  That proves it was him.  Where do you think you are right now?  - What do you mean? - You haven't been staying  with your mother.  (DRAMATIC MUSIC)  (KNOCKING ON DOOR)  People always told me growing up  that it's never about the destination.  It's about the journey.  But what if the destination  - is you? - (DOG BARKING)  - Elliot Alderson. - (DOG BARKING)  Are you Elliot Alderson?  Mr. Alderson, you're under arrest  for unauthorized use of a computer,  computer trespass, and grand larceny.  - Grab the computers. - Let's go.  Get the hard drives.  All the USB drives.  - Any digital media. - Yes, sir.  Check everywhere.  (INDISTINCT RADIO CHATTER)  Get animal control here for the dog.  Let's go. Let's go.  (Saint Saviour's "This Ain't No Hymn")  It depends on   Put your arms up. Spread 'em.  Surface area     Whether you do     Whether you don't     Put your left thumb on there.  Climb a mountain     - You suicidal? - No.  - You a drug addict? - No.  - You on any medication? - No.  - How you feeling right now? - Great.  I've spoken with the prosecutor,  and we can get the hacking charges reduced.  The theft charge is a little more difficult.  The plaintiff is really upset about the dog,  but I think we can negotiate.  Hey, you heard what I said, right?  When the judge asks you for a plea  you say,  "Not guilty."  Got it?  (GAVEL STRIKING)  In the case of People vs. Alderson  how does the defendant plead?  Guilty.  (GROANS) You're shitting me.  Mr. Alderson,  you do realize Mr. Lenny Shannon's dog  was an expensive purchase at $1,200?  That makes your theft a felony.  Let the record show,  Mr. Alderson nodded his head up and down indicating "yes,"  and you're admitting you hacked into Mr. Shannon's email,  social media, and bank accounts,  which will convict you on both counts  of computer hacking?  Again, let the record show,  Mr. Alderson nodded his head up and down indicating "yes."  You're aware of the gravity of these allegations?  You will be sentenced to jail.  What the fuck are you doing?  Yes  and I plead guilty.  Do you make this plea out of free will  - and free mind? - No! No.  He's fucking crazy.  Yes.  Mr. Alderson, I declare you guilty  of computer hacking, computer trespass,  grand larceny of fourth degree.  I hereby sentence you to 18 months in county jail.  Adios, you son of a bitch.  (Public Image Ltd.'s "The Order of Death")    - This your first time here? - Yes.  Do you have any intention of harming yourself?  - No. - Sit.    Don't move.  Put your chin on the bull's-eye.  Do not move.  Right side.  This is what you want, this is what you get   This is what you want, this is what you get   All right, let's go.    Need you to swing by at 3:00 p.m.    Problems with RT again.  Yes sir, Warden.    This is what you want   - (DOOR CLOSES) - Let's go.  Get naked.  What you want, what you get   what you get, what you want     Let's go. Get undressed.  Hurry up. All right, let's go.  Get undressed for me.    Squat down. Turn around.  Let me see the bottoms of your feet.  Your left foot. Now bend over.  Spread your ass. Bend over.  Spread 'em.  This is what you get   This is what you want, this is what you get   This is what you want, this is what you get   Read this right here,  confirm that these are all of your items,  and sign right here.  Speedy Gonzalez.  Fucking amazing, man.  Arrested, arraigned,  convicted within 24 hours.  Yeah, we heard about you, cuz.  In fact,  you're the only guilty man in the entire pen.  You know that?  Leon.  Okay, that's cool.  It's best you learn soon,  'cause you don't wanna be alone in a place like this.  Check it out. I'll give you the lowdown.  Routine. That's key.  It's best you find your routine,  whatever it is, and stick to it.  Mornings, we chow.  Afternoons, we hit the ball court.  Evenings, that's when I get my TV time.  Some people join church groups, or AA, or whatever,  but I like to bench personally.  Peace, brother.  (GRUNTS)  Ain't no Internet for us here.  Your best bet is going through some boxes  in the library full of old,  throwback classic DVDs.  You know what I'm saying?  I'm making my way through the '90s right now.  Nearly finished with "Mad About You."  You know, my man Paul Reiser  he just doesn't get the credit he deserve.  Man is spectacular.  Phenomenal.  Think I'ma start watching "Seinfeld" next.  I heard it's nails.  You look nervous, cuz.  Don't be.  Just do you.  I mean, I'd say we got a pretty solid  rapport going on anyway.  We stick together, things'll be just fine.  (LIGHTER CLICKS, FIRE CRACKLES)  Oh, that's Hot Carla. (CHUCKLES)  If you're a pyro,  she's your chick with a dick.  (CHUCKLES) Know what I'm saying?  Probably not.  Oh, whatever you do  stay away from these David Duke motherfuckers right here, man.  You don't say much, do you?  - No. - Well, that's cool, man.  I'm here to provide you with anything you may need.  I can pretty much find anything, and I mean anything.  Smokes, pills, hard shit,  porn, grandma porn. (CHUCKLES)  Some of these guys like that shit.  Gay porn.  I don't judge, man.  Whatever you need.  (INDISTINCT CHATTER)  Can you get me a notebook?  (Depeche Mode's "Walking in My Shoes")    See you in the morning.    I would tell you about the things they put me through   The pain I've been subjected to   But the Lord himself would blush   The countless feasts laid at my feet   That's how it happened.  That's all you missed.  That's everything.    Now I'm not looking for absolution    Forgiveness for   You got everything you arrived with?  Sign here stating such.  Here's a discharge report and the early release form.  Give that to the officers at the door.  You have the hack to thank for that letter.  I never released this many non-violent offenders before.  This mess with the economy  is affecting the prison budgets too.  You got lucky. Don't squander it.  That card's worthless out there now.  You want it for sentimental value,  or should I toss it?  Toss it.  Init 5, return to normal.  Is it possible to return  after 86 days in a 6x9-foot box?  (SOFT DRAMATIC MUSIC)    Init 5 is supposed to bring color and sound.  Instead the world's gray and quiet.    (INAUDIBLE)  (DRAMATIC MUSIC)  (PHONE RINGS)  Joseph Green's office. Monica speaking.  Hi, Monica. I'm a junior partner  at Johnson, Lerner, and Carlin.  I have sensitive documents for Mr. Green regarding  - this Flint water case. - Send them over.  I'll make sure he gets them right away.  I'm actually downstairs right now.  Super. Leave 'em at reception.  I'm sorry. I was told these are  very sensitive documents  and to only deliver them straight to Mr. Green  or your hands.  Sorry. I can't leave my desk,  but Mr. Green is out of the office until 2:00,  so he's not gonna read them right away anyway.  Obviously I would just bring them up myself,  but security down here is insane.  Can you please just come down?    (SIGHS) Okay, I'll be right down.      (PHONE RINGING)    Oh, hey.  Monica.  Uh, tell Joe to give me a call  when he gets back from lunch, will you?  Sure.        (INDISTINCT CHATTER)    (SUBWAY DOOR OPENS)  Hurry up.  I hacked my Dark Army contact.  Found an archive with screenshots  of his IRC chats with them.  Something called Stage 2.  It has to do with the femtocell.  I tried to tell Trenton and Mobley,  but I couldn't get in touch with either of them.  I called, message checked all the usual haunts.  Both are AWOL.  Okay, Trenton's parents are a wreck.  They filed a missing person's report.  (DOOR CLOSE ALARM CHIMES)  Between them missing and the channel archive  I'm freaking out.  I think Dark Army could be cleaning house.  That doesn't make sense.  I think they're behind my early release.  We need to talk to your contact.  (EXHALES SHARPLY)  We're not  really on the best of terms right now.  Doesn't matter.  They can't do this.  This wasn't part of the deal.  Let's keep moving.  Out through the basement, I'll leave through  the side door, and we'll meet at the seven.  Not yet.  I'm going to see her.  (SCOFFS) What do you mean?  I thought this was just to lose our tail.  Elliot, you're actually gonna go see her?  We seriously need to talk.  Shit has gone down.  I need to do this.  Okay.  Just be quick.  I'll wait in the stairwell.  Mom?  They taking care of you?  Room looks nice.  I'll see if they can fix the clock.  Looks like it's broken.  How are you?  A lot's happened  since last I saw you.  Had a really hard time.  Anyway,  just wanted to say thank you.  You helped me survive these last couple months.  I don't think I could have done it without you.  Okay.  Take care.                                  Init 5 is supposed to be simple.  - A fresh start. - (INDISTINCT ARGUING)  Restored connections.  This may be my first real moment of normalcy.  Taking a piss in private.  You hit me in the face with a fucking bat!  Thank God I didn't need stitches!  Well, I should have hit you harder.  We've been over this for the last three weeks.  Okay, I've walked you through every IRC conversation.  I am not gonna let this go.  Why the fuck are you sending pictures of me  while I'm asleep to the Dark Army?  How many times do I have to tell you?  Letting them know that you're with me keeps you safe.  I was trying to protect you.  Then why aren't you telling me about Stage 2  and what you guys did with the femtocell?  We've been over this a million  You've both got to calm down!  (SOFT DRAMATIC MUSIC)  Yes, the shit has officially hit the fan.  Here's what we're gonna do.  Okay, okay. Let's all take a beat.  We're gonna settle down here.  Relax.  Elliot?    Hey, Elliot. You all right?  Elliot?  Come back to Earth.  I thought you wanted to find Mobley and Trenton?  (QUIETLY) Yeah.  Yeah.  We need to know what happened to them, right?  (SCOFFS) I can't keep up with you two.  Look, I'm not risking my life to help with this.  I'm not doing it. I'm not doing it.  Your Dark Army contact.  You have one?  You must.  (EXHALES SHARPLY)  If they find out I was involved, it'll be my ass.  Okay? I'll be the next one missing.  Only there won't be any questions  about where I went.  You better be more reliable than your sister.  Hey,  what the hell just happened?  I was gonna ask you the same.  Why were you talking with them?  What are you talking about?  One second everything was normal.  All of a sudden, you stopped responding.  It was like you shut down.  I had to say something.  It's unfortunate what both your country  and the company have been through  in the last several weeks.  Yes.  A succession of unfortunate events.  The timing of which almost seems intentional.  Well, at least there's good news for both of us.  Your little pet project  came through even better than you thought.  I must admit, she surprised me.  It's a good thing that she did the right thing in the end.  It's too bad.  You know, for all she's done,  it won't matter.  The failure of the bailout has left me in  a rather obsequious position.  We failed our financial stress test,  so we won't be able  to keep up all our facilities.  As of noon this Friday,  I'm sorry to say, the Washington Township plant  will be taken over  by the federal government.  (SCOFFS) And here I thought we were  taking a step forward,  but here we stand two steps back.  Your actions remind me of your predecessor, Phillip.  And here comes the veiled death threat.  (CHUCKLES)  You wanna take a shot at me?  Be my guest.  The appointment of a new CEO  isn't going to stop the federal government  from taking over the plant.  I flew for 13 hours and 35 minutes,  if you have a point, it's time.  I needed that bailout money,  and I no longer have it.  Thanks to your little shootout in China.  What do I need now?  Cash.  Lots of it.  I could see a scenario where the Chinese government,  in a bid to establish itself  as the new global leader of the 21st century,  loans E Corp the money it needs  At a low interest rate.  Perhaps even zero.  As a gesture of goodwill to the American people.  With that cash, I could save your plant  from the clutches of the federal government,  and finally,  when a peaceful China appears benevolent,  well (CHUCKLES)  That's an easier pitch  for me to get onto the President's desk.  I will be happy to go back and talk  with the Chinese government.  I'm sure that they will be most agreeable,  but the next time you threaten my plant  What?  What?  The only move left in that scenario is a third World War.  You see? I'm a mercenary.  I don't play fair.  I play what I want.  When you deal with a mercenary,  then all decorum gets tossed out the window,  so you go ahead with your cute threats  and your watch beeps.  Order  will not protect you anymore, my friend.  I will rain chaos,  even if it hurts me,  'cause I would rather see you lose  than win myself.  (QUIETLY) Oh.  That's all the time I have.  (DRAMATIC MUSIC)  On May 9th, we took down  the world's biggest conglomerate.  We all had the same intention  me, Darlene, Mobley, Trenton, Romero  to change the world,  but there was one other player,  the Dark Army.  We never did find out what their intentions were.    Pwnie Express pwn phone.  A phone loaded with 103 network monitoring and attack tools.  A dream device for pentesters and hackers.  His name is Xun.  Xun's boss is Whiterose,  who helped us bring down Evil Corp.  Xun and his people wanted the femtocell.  Why?  I don't know,  but soon we'll know everything.  We're hacking Xun.  - Something's not right. - (BREATHING HEAVILY)  I feel off.  It's like we're overheating.  - We'll be fine. - (DISTORTED INDISTINCT CHATTER)  We're up. I've got a connection.  Time to set the meet with Xun.  Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, wait. No, no, no.  I thought we were operating from here?  This only gets his phone mic live.  I'm going to ask them about Stage 2.  What?  Even if they don't tell me anything,  at least it'll get them talking about it,  and that's all we need right now.  Oh, my God. Jesus, bro,  you're just like your sister.  First the number. Now the meet.  I mean, you don't stop. I'm not doing it, man.  These guys won't think twice about killing you on the spot.  Trust me.  I have a way to get him talking.  Fuck yeah. I would love to meet him.  No, he's not meeting you. He's meeting Mr. Robot.  What'd you say?  (QUIETLY) Nothing.  I meant me.  Me. He's meeting me.  Something's happening with us.  We can't do this.  I got this.  (CLOCK TICKING)  This is big.  How did you get  The levels of toxicity are still  above regulation,  right?  What's the next course of action in a case like this?  Uh, well, this definitely falls under what we call  substantial and specific danger  to public health and safety.  You know we're bound by law  to protect your anonymity, right?  There could be money for a whistle-blower  in a situation like this.  You're gonna wanna get a lawyer.  I'm not doing this for the money.  I just want it to happen fast.  Okay.  I'll take this to the deputy director.  You mind sticking around for a while?  No.  (DOOR OPENS)  (FOOTSTEPS FADE)  (DISCORDANT KEYBOARD MUSIC PLAYING)    (INTENSE DEEP BASS MUSIC)      Hey!  (MOUTHING)    Hey!  Hey  All right, yo. This is our stop.  Yo, I don't get it.  Are you nervous or something, man?  - Because you can't be - No, I  Never mind. I'm good.  (SPEAKING MANDARIN)                Flying drone into the capital of this great nation.  Meanwhile, the FBI  gets caught with its hand in the cookie jar  trying to work in legal gray areas.  Listening in on phone calls. Reading emails.  The FBI has 3 million of you innocent citizens  under surveillance for no reason.  Okay? The backlash?  It boggles the mind.  If you've got nothing to hide  then what do you have to worry about?  Especially, at a little surveillance?  - Oh, shit. - Help bring down  the world's worst criminals.  The FBI needs to catch this guy  by what means necessary.  (VOICE CUTTING IN AND OUT) (ELECTRICITY HUMS)  symbol of capitalism.  Unless it falls on the capital's doorstep  that's not vandalism.  That's a victory lap, people!  Tyrell Wellick wants us to know,  - he's not done - (FOOTSTEPS OVER LAPTOP)  (DOOR OPENS)        - Why are they leaving? - They weren't expecting you.  Look at me!  Tell Whiterose I wanna know what Stage 2 is.  (CLOCK TICKING)  (ELECTRICITY HUMMING)  (TIRES SQUEAL, CAR HORNS HONKING)  Second one tonight.  Brownouts. We've been bracing ourselves  since Comet Electric went on strike.  I'm sorry to keep you waiting. Deputy Director Phelps.  Office of Investigations.  - Hi. - Jeff told me a little about  what you've brought us.  Can you come with me?  My colleagues and I wanted to ask you a few questions.  We're so indebted to citizens like you.  Thank you.  I never cease to be astonished by the heroics  of everyday people.  Did you come all the way down from New York just for this?  Or are you based in New Jersey?  You know, I should probably get  some contact information from you.  - Jeff promised anonymity. - Which is a nice idea,  to be sure.  Is Jeff going to be in the meeting?  I know. It sounds complicated,  but how it works is the commission will want  to discuss this with you after they review.  Maybe I'm misunderstanding, but  You do work at E Corp, yes?  What?  I never said that.  What is your position there?  The more we know about the origins of these documents  the quicker we can process them.  Actually, could I get my files and the drive back?  You've made it all the way down here.  Let's not stop now, shall we?  I'm sorry.  This trip has taken a lot longer than I thought it would,  and I can't miss the last train back.  But, Angela, my colleagues  in the other room are eager to talk to you.  No, thanks.  I gotta go.  (DOOR OPENS)  - How'd it go? - Everything's on track.  Good.  The lights have been flickering.  Yeah. The streetlights too.  - Brownout's started. - Hey.  I gotta talk to you for a minute.  I left that busted VHS tape at the Smart House.  - What VHS tape? - That fsociety video.  Relax. I'm sure we got it.  - We cleaned the place good. - No, I left it.  It's not here.  We wiped the whole house down.  Do you remember grabbing it?  I know I didn't.  - We have to go back. - Oh, Jesus Christ, Darlene.  We cannot go back. That was a goddamn month ago.  The cops could have been there already,  and you're just remembering this now?  It doesn't matter. I have to go.  Fucking hell, Darlene. I swear.  Why are you even using VHS tapes in the first place?  Because it's cool?  There's a million filters on Final Cut.  My face is on that tape.  (SIGHS)  Fine. Fine,  but I'm going, all right?  Feds are looking for you, not me.  Where is it?  I think I set it on that weird lamp  in the living room.  Maybe it fell behind.  All right.  Uh, hang on.  Thank you.  Really.  (DOOR CLOSES)  You look burnt.  Yeah, I'm getting tired.  You can stay here and crash on the couch.  (GRUNTS) Home would be better.  I'm not feeling right.  They're gonna be watching.  All the more reason.  I need them to see me living a normal life.  Oh, good point,  but assume the worst.  Your place is probably bugged.  Be careful coming back here.  I'll stay up and keep listening.  (DOORBELL RINGS)  Hey, one of your fellow tenants let me in the building.  - (BAG RUSTLES) - Look what I got.  Your favorite. Nia's gyros.  Mind if I come in?  Actually, yeah. I'm  Don't worry. I left my handcuffs at home.  (DOOR CLOSES)  Wow.  Gosh.  Nice place.  They really take good care of you here, huh?  (CHUCKLES SOFTLY)  E Corp housing?  Are you working for them?  Working for who, Angela?  I need you to leave.  (SIGHS)  I had this dream,  which if you know me, is pretty rare.  It was good at first.  Exciting.  There was the beautiful woman.  Sexy even.  But then, man, did it go downhill fast.  By the end, I was being choked underwater.  Ollie Parker told me about the CD at Allsafe.  It was literally the first thing out of his mouth  when we interviewed him two months ago.  I've been having you tracked ever since.  Including your little field trip  out there to the Nuclear Regulatory Commission today.  It's clear you're freaking out about something.  I don't know how any of this ties together,  but  eventually someone will connect the dots,  and it'll catch up to you.  So I'm being real with you right now.  Next person's not gonna offer you food.  They're gonna grab you off the street  and throw you in a dark cell.  But you still have one hand to play.  That's me.  In that dream I had,  when I was being drowned,  it was when I stopped fighting it.  When I finally let go  and stopped struggling so much  That's when I survived.  (DOOR OPENS AND CLOSES)  (GROANING AND PANTING)  (STATIC OVER LAPTOP)  (DOOR CLOSES)        (FOOTSTEPS)  - (DOOR CLOSES) -     -  - XUN: Elliot.          (DRAMATIC MUSIC)    It began as a failure.  Everything.  My existence.  I should recognize that.  Accept it.  For me there's no such thing as normalcy.  My dead father appears and disappears at will.  I talk to you, an invisible friend.  I'd ask if you're normal,  but you never talk back.                (ELECTRICITY HUMMING)    - (POUNDING ON DOOR) - (GASPS)    (POUNDING ON DOOR)  How can I return to normal  when the SUV belonging to the man I murdered  is parked outside my apartment?  (CAR HORN HONKS)    Normal?  I have no normal.  Hello, Ollie.
1   The lights have been flickering.  Yeah, the streetlights too.  Brownout's started.  Mr. Alderson, you're under arrest.  Grab the computers, get the hard drives,  all the USB drives  I want you to lead the D.C. op.  You can stay here and crash on the couch.  Home would be better.  Have you spoken to the administration?  We're not there yet.  There he is, Terry Colby, the CTO.  You can't be offering me a job there.  You're testifying against them.  In business, grudges aren't really a thing.  - You do work at E Corp. - I never said that.  Best case scenario, I lose my job  and plea bargain down a jail sentence.  I'm backed into a corner.  I wanted to be Claudia Kincaid so bad.  Ollie Parker told me about the CD at Allsafe.  Eventually, someone will connect the dots,  and it'll catch up to you.  The Dark Army are just hackers.  I clipped one of the shooters in the leg.  He turned the gun on himself.  He erased his history.  Tyrell's always surprising me with little gifts.  [cell phone buzzes]  I have a contact attempting to trace the phone calls,  but he needs more time.  Mobley and Trenton both are AWOL.  [banging at door]  In that dream I had, when I was being drowned,  it was when I stopped fighting it.  That's when I survived.  Hello, Ollie.  It's a gift. I  I wanted to give it to you before I forgot.  That's my last advance copy.  It's trending on Amazon's Movers & Shakers.  It's ahead of Trump's latest.  Can you believe that cocksucker is actually running this time?  I mean, if I wanted, the things I have on him  could put me on his ticket.  Politics  is for puppets.  Besides, if you did run for office,  you'd no longer be "The Last Honest Man."  [chuckling]  Thank you, Terry.  Anyway, I need you to see our friend,  Winston Campbell,  about this issue tonight.  I understand he still owes you some favors.  [sighs] He does.  But a UN allowing China to annex the Congo?  Winston has the president's ear.  Oh, I get it,  but I got to be honest, Philip  it's a little out there.  I know from reading the "Times"  that China's got the tip of its dick in the Congo  [serene classical music]  And you want Winston  to tell Obama to look the other way  while the chinks fuck it dry.  I mean  I don't know, to give them  national sovereignty of another nation?  It's a little out there, don't you think?  Central Africa's a shit show.  After climate change,  it'll be a bunch of soon-to-be corpses  raging a civil war.  The Oval Office could spin this  as a humanitarian intervention.  Well, all due respect,  it's bullshit.  If he tells the ambassador  to vote "yes" on this,  Obama will be forever known  as the man who gifted Africa to China.  No.  That's the fine point.  Obama just needs to tell his ambassador  to abstain.  I, uh I don't suppose  you're gonna tell me  what all this has to do with your ambitions.    Do this for me, Terry    And I promise I won't forget your help.    I mean, the fucking Congo.  [laughing] You know, the Congo.  I mean, is there a pocket of the world  you don't have your hand in?  You're trading countries like, uh like playing cards.  Isn't that what history is all about?  Politically, economically, geographically  imaginary lines being drawn and redrawn,  over and over again?    Yeah.  Um, Philip, I got to know.    What do you do it for?  I mean, all of it?    Honestly?  Yeah.    In my life, as I was making my way,  I always asked the question,  am I the most powerful person in the room?    The answer needed to be yes.  To this day,  I still ask that question.  And the answer is still yes.  In every room in the entire world,  the answer is yes    With the exception of one.  Or two.  And that drives me.    I intend to leave a legacy,  the standard of which was set by God  when he created the Earth  and man after his own image.    Anything less is  not worth mentioning.       [singers screaming indistinctly]    I'm still against this.  The feds see us with him,  no telling what conclusion they'll draw.  If you had done the job you were tasked with,  we wouldn't be here.  He's coming.  [window sliding]  Hello, Ollie.  [garbled radio chatter]  Why isn't she saying anything?  Is she trying to get inside my head?  [garbled radio chatter]  I still feel like she can hear us.  I feel like she can see me.  You're not going anywhere.  I know you're working with my husband.  Tell me where he is.  Sorry, I don't know.  You're being honest this time.  But you're gonna find him for me.  No one's gonna find him.  I don't think I'll be able to do that.  [chuckles]  Now you're back to lying.  Should I tell her the truth?  Should I tell her that her husband's dead?  You do that, I can guarantee we don't walk out of here alive.  On my first date with Tyrell,  I saw this stunning redhead  wearing a pair of cubic zirconia earrings.  I asked him what he would do to get me those earrings.  He told me he would do whatever was necessary.  I told him I wanted him to fuck that woman  and bring me her earrings.  The next morning,  I woke up to a gift.  These are the cheapest things I own,  yet they're my favorite.  Tyrell would always do what was necessary.  And at the end of that,  I would receive a gift.  That's why I know he's alive.  That's why he's been calling me  That's why he sent me this phone  Because he's doing what's necessary.  You talked to him?  He called me last night.  That's impossible.  He wants to let me know that he's okay.  He has a plan.  He told you that?  No.  We haven't spoken.  He's protecting me.  That's what you do for your partner.  The calls come up as unknown.  I've tried to have him tracked, but I've been  unsuccessful.  Is this something you might be able to accomplish?  This bitch is blood simple, Elliot.  She's the wife of the psycho who strangled that woman  the same psycho who is this close to doing the same to you.  If we're around when she learns that Tyrell is dead,  you don't think she'll have us killed?  He's right.  It's not worth it.  I'm sorry.  Can't help you.  Do you really want to say no to me?  I mean, where did he come from?  I found him gasping on the couch.  And you brought him here?  I wasn't gonna fuckin' leave him there.  He was saying your name; I figured he was one of your guys.  Vincent. Vincent!  What is wrong with him?  How am I supposed to know?  Where are the others?  He was the only one there.  I had to cab it straight back here.  Who the fuck is this guy?  He was one of the D.C. guys who did the Capitol Hill job.  We got to get this guy to a hospital.  No hospitals.  How do we know he doesn't have a tracker on him  or a bug?  Jesus.  That looks like internal bleeding.  This guy's gonna die.  All we got to do is drop him off at an ER.  [wheezing]  He knows my face  my name.  He's gonna wake up to a drip of morphine.  I can't risk him talking.  And what?  He knew what he was getting himself into.  If we don't get him help right now,  he's gonna die.  How does that not compute for you?  Our focus is finding Trenton and Mobley.  Trenton and Mobley might already be dead!  Jesus, you're completely fucking losing it!  You wanna act like you're on top of things,  but you're not.  You're buried way underneath.  You're not a leader.  You're not special.  Yeah, you guys did the hack, but you fumbled your way  into this ridiculous freak accident.  That ain't leading!  It's time to drop the charade  like this was all part of the plan  and wake the fuck up!  There's no way that you can justify letting him die.  Where's Agent Yang?  Excuse me?  Agent Yang?  Back there.  [camera shutter clicking]  Yes, yeah, yeah, that's correct.  It's no court.  Yeah, I got it. I got it.  Do we know the ETA on that?  I'm sorry, conference call.  Can you believe this house?  Mm, yup, sure is real nice.  We should seriously consider pooling our money together.  It's probably going to be on the market soon.  So what happened here exactly?  I was told it had something to do with the D.C. activists.  Teabaggers, yeah.  They were found two days ago in Maryland.  A car chase ensued. Ended badly.  One got away; the rest were apprehended.  This is where they were supposed to meet.  Owner's an E Corp lawyer.  Supposed to be on vacation.  Starting to look more like she's missing.  I'm sorry, hon, I'm still not entirely sure  why I was called here.  That's from someone three doors down.  He was seen here.  He and another male were spotted around 10:00 p.m.  getting into a cab.  The description matches a person of interest  in your code name case.  Wait, he was here tonight?  Have you found the cab?  If this is really the guy, why did we burn the house?  How come we didn't put surveillance on it?  What was the thought process here?  You know Director Comey's taking a more aggressive  strategy on everything ever since the shit hit the fan  over that video.  Yeah.  I can walk you through the report if we need to.  Uh, check with Agent Burke, yes.  [somber music]    Is this the future  I was fighting for?    The system is hung,  frozen in limbo.    Did we lose the fight?  Maybe wars aren't meant to be won.  Maybe they're meant to be continuous.  Maybe Ray had it right all along.  These people are certifiable.    You should be going home,  not working with these wack jobs.  She's a grieving wife.  She wants to believe he's alive.    Who do you think's making those calls?  [scoffs] Her husband's the most wanted man  in the country.  A ton of people hate her just by association.    We need to stop at Micro Center.  We're only making one stop:  your apartment.  The cops confiscated everything;  it'll be weeks before I can get it back.  If you want this done tonight,  I need hardware.  This is a composite from Ollie Parker's testimony.  This is a sketch from a description a neighbor  gave us just now at Susan Jacobs's house.  These are from two separate witnesses.  This is the same guy.  We have fresh evidence on this guy.  He's not tainted.  We're gonna put out a BOLO.  If you do that, the Dark Army will kill him.  Not this again.  If this sketch gets on the news,  he's as good as dead.  I'm telling you, they won't let one of their own  be known by law enforcement like that.  As it is now, they might already know.  We lost Sunil Markesh.  We can't let it happen with this guy.  Just give me  Dom?  We're going to the media for this one.  And we're using this.  [tense music]  Look, this whole, slow roll  that you and the rest of us have been working up,  it didn't work.  It's time to embrace the Bureau's new direction.    Yeah, it's Santiago.  Well, tell him I need him right away.  Dom  I have Agent Thomas looking into cab companies.  He may have found a lead to where this guy went.  Hook up with him.    A cryptocurrency regulated by Evil Corp.  The hypocrisy isn't surprising.  A special Evil Corp discount if we use their new money.  If you ever needed a sign that our work is not done yet,  this is it.  Even if you track the call to some crank yanker  down the street, when you give him the info, you should  Place the call far away.  Like another country far.  [phone buzzing]  The phone.  It's the one Joanna gave me.  [ominous music]    Hello?  [heavy breathing]    [line beeping]  Tell me you heard that too.  It can't be him, can it?  [footsteps echo]  And why is Mr. Robot suddenly gone?  [ominous music continues]    [indistinct chatter on PA]  Keep going.  Elliot? What does he have to do with stage two?  I was hoping you could tell me.  I could've just dropped him off at the door.  - You didn't have to - I couldn't just leave him.  I needed to be here.  You were right back there.  I'm not special.  It's Elliot.  He's the one with the plan  the one they're taking seriously.  [dramatic music]    You know, I always thought it was crazy  we got away with this.    I thought there was something special about me  that made it happen.  But it wasn't me,  Mobley, Trenton, or Romero.  It was him.    It's always been him.  When I was five,  our parents took us to Coney Island,  my dad's idea of an Alderson family outing.  What are you doing?  Making a high-powered antenna.  I need to piggyback off someone else's wifi.  I remember looking up at this roller coaster  thinking it was the highest thing I had ever seen.  [phone buzzes]    Of course, I wasn't tall enough to go on it,  so my dad went with Elliot,  and I had to wait with my mom.  I don't remember exactly what happened next,  but somehow I got lost.  You know, most kids get scared shitless  when they're alone, but I wasn't.  I loved it.  All of a sudden, I felt  someone grab me around the waist and pick me up.    It was this old woman.  She was skinny and tall.  She had this smeared, almost pink lipstick.    She held on to me tight.  I thought about screaming,  but I didn't.    I didn't want to.    We went to Nathan's,  and she said that I could have whatever I wanted.  My parents never asked me what I wanted  ever.  It was the first time I ever  really felt special.  We started driving to her house,  and  I definitely remember thinking  that something wasn't right,  but I just looked at her and her lipstick  and let it happen.  And then we got to her house, and she showed me my room,  and it had one of those beds  with the curtains around it.  And I did feel like a princess.  I remember thinking that this was my new home  and my new life, and I didn't  have to see my parents ever again.  It was like a wish I had that all of a sudden came true.  And I went to sleep just hoping  that this wasn't all a dream,  and I wasn't just gonna wake up in my old bed.    And sure enough, the next morning,  I was still there.  But then the police barged in.  And when they took me downstairs,  there were cops everywhere.    I didn't even get to see the woman again.    And then they put me in their car  and took me home.  I still wonder what my life would've been like  if I had stayed.  But if I had stayed    Then I wouldn't have Elliot.    There are a lot of guys working on this.  None of them can figure it out.  What's that for?  For impersonating an NYPD officer.  All cell carriers have a law enforcement hotline.  Instead of hacking the carrier,  if the situation's urgent enough,  you can just ask them to track a blocked call for you.  [tense music]    Is it done?  Not yet  need a few minutes for the spoof fax to go through.  It needs to propagate through their system.  No one in the world uses fax anymore except cops.    Half of me wants it to be him.  Half of me doesn't.    Before working for the Wellicks, I had a list of clients,  all of them eccentric in one form or another.  I worked for this one guy  who used to masturbate in the car. [Laughing]  He used to have me drop him off at Carnegie Hall.  He was a first chair violinist  God, now he wants to have  a heart-to-heart.  Focusing on you helps drown him out  One of those, uh, Stradivarius violins from the 1700s.  Like talking to someone in a crowded restaurant.  Take it everywhere with him  All the other voices and noises  fade into the background.  Somehow your brain is able to decode the components  of that complex auditory space.  Can you feel it?  Good. That gives us time to talk.  [faint humming]  Is Mr. Robot MIA because he's afraid?  Afraid of what I might find when I'm done with this hack?  [faint humming]  Why did that phone call freak him out?  Could he have lied about Tyrell?  What's his move here?  Do you remember the last thing he wanted?  He kept wanting to come back home, remember?  There must be something here that he needs.  He's been bringing it up since we left prison.  Can you help?  Can you look?  Do you see anything?  And now they're moving to the next step.  Yes, the next step.  You know what the next step is?  Blackouts. Why?  So they can take away your power,  and I am not talking about your electricity.  I'm talking about your computers,  your access to the Internet, your television, your phone.  What does that all add up to?  Information.  Those wounds aren't fresh.  Do you have any idea what happened to him?  - It puts them in control. - Uh, we  we went over to his place and found him like that.  Is he gonna be all right?  He's on a respirator.  They're gonna do a CT scan  and run some other tests.  We should know more in about an hour or so.  - Okay. - Thank you.  [exhales]  Well, we got an hour to kill.  Hungry?  - Yeah. - Yeah.  Hi, this is Detective Richard Hannigan, NYPD,  11th precinct, badge number 22350.  I just faxed over an exigent form  for a suicidal person.  Can you confirm that you received it?  Yeah, I got a guy who called his girlfriend's cell  saying he's gonna shoot himself.  Yeah, all of them came in blocked.  Perfect, can you see if it's one of yours?  Can you ping that phone for a current location?  [tense music]    You've been a huge help.  I'll call you if there's something else.        Got it.  Goddamn it.  Is that where the phone is right now?  Within 12 meters.  Is it him?  [dark music]    Clear.  Clear!    Trust me,  he wouldn't be calling from that house.    Has issued a BOLO on the man pictured in this sketch.  Given FBI cyber involvement,  we can only speculate at this time  that the man in this sketch  may be wanted in relation to the infamous Five/Nine attack.    I have money stashed at a hackerspace on Canal.  Okay, we make sure Vincent's all right.  We wipe your place down, and then we bolt.  We can target them from afar  for more intel on Trenton and Mobley.  Darlene, you know we can't leave.  They don't own us.  We played by their rules,  and those fuckers still hit Trenton and Mobley.  [dramatic music]    I am so sick  of always worry about switching cabs  and phones and trains and always looking behind  Just calm down, okay?    He was waiting here?  - Yeah, they were - They?  Who was he with? Male or female?  Dom, we're reviewing the security footage.  Let her finish.  A woman.  His girlfriend, I think.  They were waiting here.  They were really concerned about their friend.  They waited for about an hour,  and then I told them we were sending him up for some tests.  And that's when they left?  I'm sorry, I wasn't paying attention.  If it helps, I told them to come back in an hour.  At this point, they're definitely not coming back here.  He probably saw the BOLO.  He's freaking out. Probably hiding.  It might take some time, but we'll get him.    I got your messages.  Sorry it took so long to get here.    What's wrong?  Why did you start fsociety?    I didn't want to involve you.  An FBI agent  came to my place.    Look, let's just sit here  and chill a minute.  Right? We'll come up with something.  Sometimes  the best decision is not making one.    [whispers] Fine.    Why'd it take you so long to call it in?  The TV's right there.    It's okay; you didn't do anything wrong.  I'm just trying to figure something out.  It's probably because Janice turns it to the news  when her shift starts.    They didn't see it  the TV they're coming back.  They probably didn't go too far.    I can fix this, okay?  - I will fix - I'm gonna confess.  I've already called my lawyer.  I'm on my way to meet her now.  I can't keep pretending like this is gonna go away.  We can't beat them.  Trust me, I've tried.  No matter what we do,  we will always lose to them.  I'm gonna tell 'em that I planted the femtocell.    I would never involve any of you,  so I'm just gonna own up for what I did.  But sooner or later, Elliot,  this will all catch up to you.    Thank you.  Ooh.  What the fuck are you doing?  What?  If you wanted some,  you should've ordered your own.  You know I'm not into that family-style shit.  Oh. Oops.  [slurping]  [laughing]  You're such an asshole.  How am I supposed to help the ones I care about  when every step I take puts them in greater danger?  This was my plan,  and I hid in a cage while everyone else  took all the risk.  I mean, fuck.  We have to talk to each other on the subway.  It's a long way from getting high  and watching "Back to the Future II."    Yeah, we never did get around to doing that.    Excuse me, have you seen a young couple  walk past recently coming from that direction?  No, I didn't see anyone.  She's got dark hair; he's wearing a baseball hat.  [sighs]  Do you remember when I found you at the Queens Museum?  You were pacing  and screaming at the staff,  because they couldn't see  whoever you said you were seeing.  Was it your dad then too, or was it someone else?    I don't remember that at all.  Elliot, I don't know if you started all this because of him.  But whatever he is,  you can't work with him.  Don't trick yourself into thinking that.    If I was gonna eat around here, where would I go?  There's nothing around here.  You've got to go over, like, five blocks.  There's still a few places open over there.    [alarms blaring]  [car horns honking]    You should probably get off here.    I don't want to leave her.    [brakes squeal and hiss]    [suspenseful music]    [suspenseful music continues]    [panting]    Send all units to Watts and 6th Ave.    [distant sirens]  [brakes squeal]  [engine rumbling]  [distant sirens]  - [gunfire] - [screams]  - [sirens approaching] - [gunfire]  [siren wailing]  [tires screeching]  Get down! Down on the ground!  [gunshot]  Green!  Green! FBI!  Don't shoot!  [sirens wailing]
1 Alexa, when is the end of the world?  Unless a future technology goes very wrong indeed,  Earth is most likely to be destroyed  in several billion years' time.  The president can't go to Congress  with a bailout right now.  I could see a scenario where the Chinese government  loans E Corp the money it needs  at a low interest rate,  perhaps even zero.    You want me to convince the class  to remove the contingency.  Your little pet project  came through even better than you thought.  You do work at E Corp. Yes?  What is your position there?  I never said that.  I'm gonna confess.  I've already called my lawyer.  We can't beat them.  No matter what we do,  we will always lose to them.  Next person's not gonna offer you food.  They're gonna grab you off the street  and throw you in a dark cell.  I've tried to have him tracked,  but I've been unsuccessful.  - Got it. - Is that where  the phone is right now?  - [door creaks] - Okay, okay.  We're gonna settle down here.  Hey, Elliot.  You can stay here  and crash on the couch.  Home would be better.  Is Mr. Robot MIA  because he's afraid of what I might find?  Send all units to Watts and 6th Ave.  - [machine gun firing] - [glass shattering]  Angela's right. We can't beat them.  But we don't have to lose to them either.  Maybe there's a way to stop them from winning.  Mr. Robot, the ever-present silent observer,  watching me at all times,  even when I can't see him,  listening in on our conversations.  He's always a step ahead of me,  'cause he is me.  Maybe he's the key to this.  Maybe he's always been the key to this.  What if I could be the silent observer?  [sparse piano music]  In middle school, I took a Visual Basic class.  I remember my friend Sam telling me about a technique  he used to induce lucid dreams so he could study in his sleep.  You lie in bed and repeat this mantra in your head:  Mind awake. Body asleep.  Mind awake. Body asleep.  You're in this with me,  so it'll work better if we do it together.  Just say it with me.  [whispering] Mind awake.  Body asleep.  Mind awake.  Body asleep.  Mind awake.  Body asleep.  Mind awake.  Body asleep.  Mind awake.  Body asleep.  - Mind awake. - [baby fussing]  - Body asleep. - [baby cooing]  Mind awake.  Body asleep.  Mind awake.  Body asleep.    Shh.  [shushing]  [footsteps approaching]  Ma'am. What do you want to do?    Let me see it again.    Sure this is accurate?  You know, of all the gifts he sent,  this is the greatest we ever received.  [Harry Waters Jr.'s "Night Train" playing on radio]    [radio static crackling]  So you're not gonna tell me where you're taking me?  You can't do this. I want my phone back.  [door handle jiggling]  [door handle jiggling]  I'm not the only one with the files.  You think I didn't make copies?  There are copies everywhere.  A lot of people are gonna know that I'm missing.  [music volume increases]    This isn't my blood, in case you're wondering.  You need to finish this evaluation.  I understand you have your procedure,  but these are extreme circumstances.  I believe the best use for me is back at the crime scene.  We should be getting Director Comey involved.  - That's how serious this is. - You're in shock.  At you and the way you're treating me right now, sure.  Can I speak to Agent DiPierro for a minute?  Alone?  [door opens and closes]  You know I can't leave.  Yes, you can.  [sighs]  You're going off the handle.  They're gonna force you to take leave  if you keep talking like that.  This is all your fault.  I told you not to release the sketch.  I told you Dark Army was gonna come after him.  And not only are several people dead,  but I almost just got killed out there.  Well, that makes me feel good.  It's not every day I get casually blamed  for the deaths of innocent people.  Clearly, Dark Army is behind this.  And who knows how far up this goes?  The Chinese government is definitely involved.  They're hiding something.  We need everything on lockdown. We might have a leak.  And I'm serious about what I said about Comey.  He needs to know.  This is a matter of national security now.  This is no longer just a terrorist attack.  This could be an act of war.  We should get the military involved.  Look  I agree with you.  Something's going on.  Especially given the weird timing  of this $2 trillion.  But we can't just go off on everyone  without knowing all the facts.  What $2 trillion?  This morning,  the U.S. got back in bed with China.  China bailed out E Corp.  Gave them a $2-trillion no-interest loan.  Unprecedented.  It's a trap.  Don't you get it? We have to talk to them.  They can't do this after what happened last night.  What, that some Mexican restaurant got shot up?  It was more than that, and you know it.  We have to tell them.  We can't let them get away with this, Santiago.  They're going to get away with this.  $2 trillion, Dom.  That's the miracle the world's been waiting for.  The U.S. isn't going to mess with its Chinese relations now.  And with the OPR investigation still going,  the bureau isn't even getting close to it.  You gotta be kidding me.  A month ago, they tried to kill us.  And in politics, that's a distant memory.  This deal they have now  is about to potentially solve  the biggest global crisis in history.  [sighs] Now, look.  I'm on your side.  I'm not saying I'm walking away.  I'm just saying we need to start  finding a way to walk in between the mines  and not on them.  Whatever happened, whoever did this,  they mobilized quickly, created a narrative,  and before we even knew it,  this was all in the rearview mirror.  Go home.  Get some rest.  Promise me you'll let me do the interview.  It can wait a few hours.  Go rest.  [door closes]  ["The Ballad of Davy Crockett" playing on radio]  Born on a mountaintop in Tennessee   Greenest state in the land of the free   Raised in the woods so he knew ev'ry tree   Kilt him a b'ar when he was only three   Davy, Davy Crockett   King of the wild frontier   Fought single-handed through the Injun War   Till the Creeks was whipped and the peace was in store   And while he was handlin' this risky chore   Made hisself a legend forevermore   Davy, Davy Crockett   -  The man who don't know fear  - [garage door opening]  He went off to Congress and served a spell   Fixin' up the government and laws as well   Took over Washington, so I hear tell   And patched up the crack in the Liberty Bell   -  Davy, Davy Crockett  - [windshield taps ball]  [music and engine stop]  [garage door closing]  [ice cream truck music playing faintly]  [sprinkler whirring]  [dog barking]  [airplane engine droning]  What the f is going on?  [door closes, lock clicks]  [door handle jiggles]  Hello?  What's happening?  [door opens and closes]  We don't have much time.  Let's get started.  Who are you?  There's water coming out of that fish tank.  We don't have much time.  Let's get started.  [computer hums]  Have you ever cried during sex?  What's going on?  Have you ever cried during sex?  Who are you?  Who sent you here?  Please answer the question.  Have you ever cried during sex?  I'm not answering these questions.  If you don't answer,  I'll be punished.  They'll beat me.  [inhales sharply]  Who's doing that to you?  [phone rings]  Yes?  Yes.  Okay. Bye.  We really need to begin.  Our time is running out.  Have you ever cried during sex?  No.  [keyboard keys clacking, computer hums]  Have you ever fantasized about murdering your father?  No.  [keyboard keys clacking, computer hums]  Are you a giraffe or a seagull?  I cannot do it. It's unconstitutional.  We're talking about rolling out Ecoin loans.  I fail to see how the Constitution  fits into this logic.  Look, with Ecoin equal to one dollar,  it'll free up the economy.  It'll give you some breathing space.  You knew this was going to happen  from the get-go.  And you're hitting me with this while there's  an energy crisis across the Eastern seaboard.  Oh, yeah. I am coming to you first.  - Asking. - Don't give me that.  The only reason why you're here first  is because you don't want to get slapped  with regulations.  But if you are indeed asking,  then I am saying no.  It's unconstitutional.  You can't make your own currency.  That is the federal government's job.  [pounds desk]  We simply cannot let you make big loans in Ecoin  that you wouldn't make in dollars.  [sighs]  Jack.  Look at me.  I am not the problem here.  The problem here is, hard cash is fading  rapidly.  That's just the way of the world right now.  And Bitcoin is spreading.  And if Bitcoin takes over,  we are all in a world of hell.  It is unregulated, it's already reached  its transaction volume maximum,  and it is partly controlled by Chinese miners.  You just accepted $2 trillion from them.  Yes, yes.  And now I want to use it against them.  With Ecoin, we control the ledger  and the mining servers.  We are the authority.  I will make sure you have visibility  into every single wallet that's open,  every loan, every transaction,  which means we can start making new assets,  which means we can start rebuilding the banking sector  without your having to inject even more  politically unpalatable federal funds into it.  The president will laugh in my face.  But he'll know this is the right thing to do.  This is gonna be controlled  by a good, old-fashioned American company.  You want to regulate it?  Be my guest. Regulate the shit out of it.  I'll give you back doors, side doors, tracing  whatever you want.  Just don't shut it down.  This was always the future, Jack.  The Five/Nine attacks  they just accelerated it.  How long?  How long have you been pressing this pedal?  How long have you been plotting against me?  Oh, come on, Jack.  [chuckles] We we've known each other for years.  You know full well I  I don't give a shit about you.  [chuckles] So please,  don't hold a personal grudge just because you lost.  Defeats can still be profitable.  Are you red or purple?  Purple.  [keyboard keys clacking, computer hums]  Is the key in the room?  What?  Is the key in the room?  I don't know what you mean.  Is the key in the room?  I don't know.  [phone ringing]  Yes.  Yes.  Okay.  Hello?  You are standing in a dark room  and can't see anything.  There is a torch and a match.  What do you do?  I light the torch.  The torch fills the dark room with light.  You see a door in front of you.  What do you do?  I open the door.  How do you open it?  I turn the knob.  The knob doesn't turn. How do you open it?  - I don't know. - The knob doesn't turn.  - How do you open it? - I don't know.  The knob doesn't turn. How do you open it?  - I said I don't f ing know. - The knob doesn't turn.  - How do you open it? - With a key.  I use a key. I unlock it with a key.  Thank you.  Hello?  What happens now?  Is the key in the room?  Yes.  [keyboard keys clacking]  - The key was in my fist. - [keyboard keys clacking]  - My fist was in my pocket. - [keyboard keys clacking]  [computer hums]  [computer humming]  I'll be back with your results.  [door opens and closes]  [lock clicks]  [dramatic ambient music]    [water running]  [sighs]  [sighs]  Alexa, wake me up at, um  Sorry, I didn't understand  the question you were asking.  That's because I wasn't asking a question, you dumb bitch.  Alexa, are we friends?  Yes.  We live together.  I feel like I don't even know you.  Alexa, what's your favorite color?  Infrared is super pretty.  [chuckles]  Alexa, do you have a boyfriend?  I'm not the dating kind.  Yeah, me too, hon.  We're a lot alike.  Alexa, what are the color of your eyes?  I don't have eyes,  but my light ring has lots of colors.  [sighs] Mine are gray.  I think.  [chuckles]  Alexa, are you happy?  I'm happy when I'm helping you.  Alexa, are you alone?  I wasn't able to understand the question I heard.  Alexa, do you love me?  That's not the kind of thing I am capable of.  [chuckles]  Yeah.  [sniffles]  [glasses clatter]  Alexa, good night.  Good night. Don't let the bedbugs bite.  [door opens]  [door closes]  [thud]  [cigarette case snaps shut]  - [lighter opens, flicks] - Who are you?  Is this your house?  [watch beeps]  I've been here for hours.  I wanted to confirm  that this wasn't a waste of my time.  - Well, what about my time? - Oh, honey.  My time is much more valuable than yours.  Speaking of, I've only allotted  28 minutes for this conversation,  which is very generous of me.  So we should begin.  I'd like to leave.  Oh, no, you wouldn't.  You've waited so long.  Surely you want to know why.  That is, if you indeed believe  that your time holds any value.  You've been here close to four hours,  and you never thought to walk out the door.  [watch beeps]  The door was locked.  I've always found doors fascinating inventions.  They hold the entry to unlimited imagination.  Before you open any door,  a world filled with possibilities  sits right behind it.  And it isn't until you open it  they are realized.  Such potential they bring to our minds.  And yet a lock  stopped you from all of that.  How  lazy.  Your fish died.  Yes, I know.  You're a terrible person.  [watch beeps]  You hurt that little girl.  Makeup.  It was part of the test.  Empathy  or gullibility.  Take your pick.  Test?  Why were you testing me?  I know you have sensitive information,  and I don't want you to release it.  Normally, my associates would have murdered you by now.  In fact, by my calculations,  you should have been dead 90 days ago.  But somehow, you stuck around long past your expiration.  Who are you?  I am a woman of time.  And I don't believe in accidents.  - You, like an annoying penny - [watch beeps]  Keep turning up.  Everywhere I look, you're there.  That is why I wanted to meet.  So I could find out why you are so special  to Phillip Price.  He's ruining our partnership,  and somehow it seems that you're the motivation.  It's true, we have an event and a friend in common.  But I haven't been fully able to understand  the meaning behind it.  What event?  It's no coincidence  that you and Mr. Alderson became who you are  after what happened with the Washington Township plant  so many years ago.  What does this have to do with Elliot?  Do you know him?  If I told you that your mother  - and Elliot's father - [watch beeps]  Died for a reason, would it make a difference?  That they were a trade,  a sacrifice for the greater good,  that they gave their lives to take humanity  to the next level.  And you are both who you are today because of that event.  You would be a different person.  You wouldn't be sitting in front of me right here.  You are at the intersection of all of it.  So I'm not going to kill you.  But I am going to prove to you  why you need to drop this mission  that you seem so stubbornly unable to let go of.  Look, I don't know what you want.  [watch beeps]  But I'll give you the jump drive.  Please, just let me go.  Fear.  How easy a quicksand of time people let that become.  We both know that you could keep finding  the plant's data.  Like that penny that keeps turning up,  your silly need for justice,  revenge will rear its ugly head  and encourage you to keep trying  and eventually find a way to shut down my project.  I don't want your proof.  I want your belief.  Belief in what?  [watch beeps]  Do you ever think that if you imagined  or believed in something, it could come true  Simply by will?  Yes.  Actually, I did believe that.  But I'm slowly having to admit  that's just not the real world  Even if I want it to be.  [watch beeps]  Well, I guess it all depends  on what your definition  of real is.  [sparse piano music]    [whispering] Mind awake.  Body asleep.  Mind awake.  Body asleep.  Mind awake.  Body asleep.  Mind awake.  Body asleep.  How long have I been asleep for?  [whispering] Body asleep.  Mind awake.  Body asleep.  Mind awake.  Body asleep.  Mind awake.  Body asleep.    Body asleep.  Mind awake.  [sighs]  [whispering] Body asleep.  Did it work?  [whispering] Body asleep.  Mind awake.  Body asleep.  Can he see us?  Hear us?  Hey, asshole.    Now I'm the silent observer, like him.  Like you.  [whispering] Body asleep.  Mind awake.  Body asleep.  This is a cipher message.  That's why he wanted to come home.  Someone's trying to make contact with me  Each number represents a letter.  A is one. B is two. C is three.  You can hear him too, right?    [whispering] Body asleep.  G-U-R.  [keyboard keys clacking]    G-U-R.  T-H-E.  A shift value of 13.  It's a rot-13 algorithm.    "The Perrin pages will help you find your calling,  "but don't be duped.  "Cut down the woods.  They be Erdos."  Number sets.  Where? Where?  Where are you?  "Cut down the woods."  Remove all of the Perrin and Erdos woods numbers.  [ominous music]      It's a phone number.  But to who?  [line trills]  - [line clicks] - 25th and 8th.  There will be a cab waiting.    [dramatic music]    [crowd chattering]  $5! IT'S MOGet your $5 flags! $5!  We got Bitcoin here. Bitcoin for sale.  We can't lose him.  Bitcoin for sale.  [indistinct chatter]  [ominous music]    Anybody have Con Ed bills?  Con Ed bills! Anybody have Con Ed bills?    With Ecoin's soaring popularity,  E Corp CEO Phillip Price announced what he is calling  a revolutionary new loan program  backed by the emerging cryptocurrency.  Ecoin loans are being touted as having increased benefits  -over conventional - [car door closes]  U.S. dollar-backed loans,  all of which are designed to support  low- and middle-income borrowers.  What this means, as Mr. Price has stressed,  is that this new loan program will not only provide  the economy with a much-needed jump-start  but, more importantly,  -give economic relief - [knock at door]  To those most affected post-Five/Nine.  However, it does seem to fly in the face  - of E Corp's - Angela.  What happened to you?  I thought we were gonna meet.  I need you to forget about that voice mail that I left you.  [engine idling]  [man continues indistinctly on TV]  Are you in danger?  No.  Something is wrong. I can tell.  You are not telling me everything.  [electricity hums]  With a much-needed jump-start  but, more importantly, give economic relief  to those most affected post-Five/Nine.  However, it does seem to fly in the face  of E Corp's economic policy  Don't call me anymore.  [man continues indistinctly on TV]  [car door slams]  Where did he go?  Wait, I have to remember,  I'm not following him.  I am him.  What I should be asking is,  where am I going?  Elliot?  You Elliot?  How do you know my name?  [speaking Arabic]  No Elliot?  [speaking Arabic]  - [engine turns over] - No, no, okay.  Wait.  Elliot, yes?  Yes.  Address?  What do you mean?  Address.  I don't know.  [speaking Arabic]  [door opens]  Chambers and Church.  [pop music]  I've got bad complications   We have to be careful now.  This is no longer a question of what I'm seeing.  No, we know that's not reliable.  The real question is,  what am I not seeing?  You have to understand,  us two meeting right now, it's dangerous.  Don't worry. We're safe.  Our partners have proven to be very influential.    I got a bad reputation     Do you see him?    Do you see someone sitting next to me?  [laughs]    [speaking Arabic]  Elliot, what are you doing?  - My apologies, sir. - Did you hear that?  - [knocking] - Hey!  - Do you see him? - Elliot, stop it.  Did did you hear that?  - Hey! - [speaking Arabic]  You have to calm down! Calm down, Elliot.  I need you to turn around and tell me  if you see someone sitting next to me right now.  - Just pull over, sir. - [speaking Arabic]  I'm terribly sorry. If you could just pull over.  Do you see him? Hey!  - Shut up! No! - Elliot!  I need you to turn around and tell me  if you see someone sitting next to me!  - [tires squealing] - [speaking Arabic]  What was the meaning of that?  I know you've been under a lot of stress,  but I've been under a lot of stress too.  Can you even begin to imagine what it's been like for me?  [The Penguins' "Earth Angel" playing]  We can't talk out here. We're exposed.  Let's go.  Go where?  Enough of these games. Now, let's go.  - We're close. - Close to what?  Have you forgotten everything?  Dark Army told me that stage two is ready.  When you see it, you'll be pleased.    It worked, Elliot.  It's up to us now.  Let me show you.  My darling dear   Love you for all time   I'm just a fool   Louie, I think this is the beginning  of a beautiful friendship.  - [laughing] -  With you
1 Dark Army told me stage two is ready.  I know he's dead. I know this isn't real.  I think this is the beginning of a beautiful friendship.  People have been forging paper records.  We haven't set up a system  to verify these sorts of claims.  Rebuilding our database is the only solution  to this problem.  Immunity is on the table  in exchange for a name.  That's all I care about.  We have to talk to them.  They can't do this after what happened last night.  What, that some Mexican restaurant got shot up?  We can't let them get away with this.  They're going to get away with this.  Promise me you'll let me do the interview.  You've been messing with me for way too long.  It's my birthday gift to you.  (SPEAKING FOREIGN LANGUAGE)    You know, of all the gifts he sent,  this is the greatest we ever received.  I have to know what you're planning.  We were meant to be allies.  We might just want the same thing,  and I need to be involved.  I am pretty positive you're dead wrong  about that, my friend.  I don't think there's anything we could possibly agree on.  (THUNDER RUMBLING)  Seems you've been very busy lately.  I have to know what you're planning.  We were meant to be allies.  We might just want the same thing,  and I need to be involved.  I'm pretty positive you're dead wrong  about that, my friend.  I don't think there's anything we could possibly agree on.  I don't know what game you're playing,  but I suggest you cut the bullshit.  If there's nothing else, I think we're done here.  Aren't you forgetting that I know  your dirty little secret?  There are people close to you that wouldn't be happy  if they knew what I know.  (TENSE MUSIC)    We're both too smart to allow pettiness  to dictate our actions.  We're better than that.  Weigh the pros and cons.  Do what you need to do.  As soon as the tabulations are over with,  you'll know that telling anyone about this  does neither one of us any good.  In fact, you'll realize that the only thing to do  in your position when it comes to me  is nothing.  (TENSE MUSIC)    Elliot!  (THUNDER RUMBLES)  I believe in fate.  There's a reason we met.  There's something between us. I can see it.    You're only seeing what's in front of you.  You're not seeing what's above you.  (THUNDER RUMBLING)  (SEAGULLS CRY)  I don't understand, I  I want to.  Help me understand.  "So much depends upon a red wheelbarrow  "glazed with rainwater  beside the white chickens."  (THUNDER RUMBLES)  (SOFT, DRAMATIC MUSIC)    My father used to say that to me all the time as a child.  It was the only English he knew.  Some silly poem.  It meant very much to him.    I use it as a reminder  a reminder of him  and a reminder of what I never wanted to become.    (THUNDER CONTINUES RUMBLING)    (ELECTRONIC MUSIC)   The young man stepped into the hall of mirrors   Where he discovered a reflection of himself     Sometimes he saw his real face   And sometimes a stranger at his place     He made up the person he wanted to be   -  With the echoes of himself  - (DOOR BUZZES)    Even the greatest stars     Live their lives in the looking glass   Even the greatest stars   Live their lives in the looking glass   (CLANKING, CLATTERING)  (CLANG)  Go on.    (ELECTRICITY CRACKLING)    Even the greatest stars   (METAL SHRIEKING)  (CLANG)  In the looking glass   - (CLICK) - (MOTOR HUMS)  (ELEVATOR CLUNKING SOFTLY)  How is the Dark Army behind this  whatever this is?  (CLUNK)  It's one thing to question your mind.  It's another to question your eyes and ears.  But then again, isn't it all the same,  our senses just mediocre inputs for our brain?  Come on.  Sure, we rely on them,  trust they accurately portray the real world around us,  but what if the haunting truth is, they can't?  That what we perceive isn't the real world at all  but just our mind's best guess?  That all we really have is a garbled reality,  a fuzzy picture we will never truly make out.  So this is where you've been staying?  God, no. We're only operating from here.  Dark Army set this up?  They're our partners. Of course they set this up  for us.  We needed a discreet place.  Discreet? You're the most wanted man in the world,  and you're walking around like that.  You really don't remember this, do you?  Because I'm not the one who set this up.  We've been through this already.  It must have been him. Mr. Robot.  (TENSE MUSIC)    (SIGHS) Elliot  I need to know.  Are you able to handle this or not?  You're here under great risk, not only to me, but to our plan.  And your, um disposition  is very much concerning me.  Joanna.    Your wife.  She's been looking for you.  I'm doing what's necessary.  (HUMMING, BUZZING)  Thank goodness they've given us these UPSes  for the power surges.  Ready to look at what we accomplished?    Wanna take your jacket off, hon?  Don't call me hon.  I just meant you have some blood on there.  I had some too, on my shirt.  I know what's on my fucking jacket.  I'm sorry for the loss of  I invoke my Fifth Amendment privilege  against self-incrimination  and respectfully decline to answer any of your questions.  I'm not asking a question.  I just wanted to tell you how sorry I am for the loss  I invoke my Fifth Amendment privilege  against self-incrimination  and respectfully decline to answer any of your questions.  I know you guys were close.  I'm sorry you had to lose him.  He was involved in one of the most  notorious hacker rings in the world.  Things like this come with the territory.  I invoke my Fifth Amendment privilege  against self-incrimination and respectfully  You keep trying to invoke the Fifth Amendment,  but there's this thing called the Patriot Act  that a bunch of people signed into law.  You know what that means?  It means that you are not on some TV show.  This isn't "Burn Notice."  There are no blue skies for you out there.  Characters like you  are not welcome here.  As far as anyone's concerned right now,  you're an enemy combatant.  You don't have any rights.  What the fuck do you want me to tell you?  I meet my boyfriend. We go eat.  He gets shot.  End of Q&A.  Give me a sec.  (BUZZER)  You're gonna want to talk to me.  We're not so different.  We're both Jersey girls.  I know it's hard for you to believe this right now,  but trust me,  by the end of this day, you and I are gonna be best friends.  Of all the gifts you've been sending me,  I've got to say,  this one got me the wettest.  this one got me the wettest.  So I'm waiting.  What?  The phone calls  the gifts.  Make me understand.  I bet you feel all high and mighty right now.  That right?  Do you think you're a powerful man, Scott?  Do you feel powerful?  (SLURRING) I am the CTO  of the largest conglomerate  I'm not interested in your job title.  I want to understand  what would make a powerful man like you  risk everything  all so he could drive me crazy?  What does it matter?  The morning I learned that I was  promoted to CTO,  I get the call.  Price wanted to hold an event that night  to announce my position.  I thought,  "I couldn't be any happier."  And then Sharon walked in.  She had made a  a doctor's visit  and wanted me to go with her.  She had found out a month ago  she was pregnant.  Didn't talk.  I didn't know if she was  happy or sad  or if I was happy or sad.  But when we first saw that sonogram  We lit up.  I thought, uh (WEEPY LAUGH)  this is gonna end up being the best day of my life.  (CRYING)  (CLEARS THROAT)  After the funeral, I didn't know why  I couldn't understand  how I could gain and lose everything  In one fell swoop.  I wanted you to feel what I felt.  I wanted to give you hope  that I could step on!  (SOBBING) But I'm sorry.  (SOBBING)  Ohh  You pussy.  You piece of shit.  I hope you rot in hell like your wife.  You're mourning a woman who, after she found out  she was pregnant, was gonna fuck my husband's brains out.  I'm glad she's dead.  Fuck her and her fetus corpse.  (WORDLESS YELLING)  (CRASHING AND BANGING)  Aah! (GRUNTS)  (GASPING)  (STRAINED) No wonder your wife was gonna cheat on you.  You're weak and pathetic.  That child's lucky to be dead.  (GRUNTING)  (DARK MUSIC)    (GAGGING, WHEEZING)  No  - (WHEEZING) (SCOT THUDS, OBJECTS CLATTER)  - Oh, my God. - (COUGHS)  Oh, my God, what have I done?  - (GAGS) - (WHISPERS) Oh, my God.  My God  (GASPS, COUGHS)  (TELEPHONE BEEPING)  - (LINE TRILLING) - (GASPS)  (WHEEZES, COUGHS)  911. What's your emergency?  Vincent had a punctured lung and a broken collarbone,  but the doctors say he's gonna recover.  The bad news is, he's gonna be arrested  and put away for a long time for his stunt in D.C.  God.  Politicians love to teabag the rest of us.  Too bad they can't take the heat.  What your friend did was domestic terrorism  in the eyes of the law.  Not my friend.  His associates, the ones we arrested,  identified you as the ringleader of their outfit.  Trust me,  I am no leader.  (LAUGHS) I can barely keep a guy.  Look, Darlene.  I don't really care what happened in D.C.  In fact, I thought it was kind of funny.  I've never seen Congress move as fast as they did on that day.  But there are serious holes in your story.  And I want to work with you to figure out why.  Look.  Babe.  I know how this works.  You get close to me,  play the sympathy card,  relate to me  we're just two crazy, wacky Jersey girls.  Take advantage that I did lose  what probably was the love of my life.  And you act like you care.  But that's just it  an act.  Which is sick and twisted.  I'd rather you arrest me and throw me into jail.  But let's get something straight.  You will not get anything out of me.  So why don't you go read your manual  and find the chapter on conniving cunts  that don't give a fuck about you or your feelings  and then get back to me with some real tactics?  Otherwise, get me a lawyer.  As far as I'm concerned,  my only statement to you is that I saw my boyfriend  go brainless last night at dinner.  I ordered the breakfast combo,  and he stole some of my bacon.  If you want any other details,  the answer is suck a dick.  (LAUGHS)  (LAUGHS)  Wait here.  (BUZZER)  (DOOR OPENS AND CLOSES)  Remember that movie?  I used to love it growing up.  It's not really scary, but gory.  You know how those two things aren't really the same?  This is the stuff we found from Cisco's place.  Couldn't find any tapes.  Figured you were smart enough to destroy them.  We're running fingerprints and DNA.  Soon we're gonna figure out if those fsociety videos  were filmed using this camera.  If we find your DNA on that stuff  I don't know  you tell me how that looks.  As far as your fsociety videos are concerned,  it looks like the one person that can help you  is fucking dead.  As far as I'm concerned,  Cisco and I were into filming some freaky shit.  Is that a matter of national security too, hon?  Then there's this.  Remember your buddy, Xander Jones?  According to him, you guys had a sexual relationship.  (SCOFFS) Dude, are you just gonna  slut shame me all day?  Is that really all you got?  He also said that you were the one that stole his gun.  Well, I can't prove that, obviously,  because your fingerprints weren't on his safe.  I figured you'd be crafty enough to clean up afterward.  What is funny, though,  is that this casing is linked to the Fun Society arcade.  (TENSE MUSIC)    Darlene  You sure you still don't want to talk to me?  (TENSE MUSIC)    What do you think?  They're planning something.  Mr. Robot, Tyrell, Dark Army, and Whiterose  are in cahoots to plan something big.  And the worst part? They all think it's me.  They all think I'm the ringleader,  the one in charge,  and I have no idea what it is.  This place is Mount Olympus.  We are prime.  We're ready!    These are blueprints for a building  and a disassembled firmware  for an uninterruptible power supply,  but I can't understand much past that.  I'm not sure what the play is.  I could ask him,  but who am I really asking?  Elliot, look over here.  (FOREBODING MUSIC)    Paper docs are coming in from all over,  slowly but surely.  The blueprints.  Is that the building?  The offline version?  17 of 71 facilities around the country so far.  Within the next month,  they'll have all the paper documents here.  I thought we were gonna have to deal with multiple facilities,  but they're making it easier for us by moving it all to one.  This is where the paper records are going.  They're trying to rebuild the database.  Titles and deeds, the bloodline of all real property  in this country.  This is how they're surviving the hack.  When our malware executes,  their whole program  Our malware?  What malware?  Oh, you orchestrated it beautifully.  When the hacked firmware  Designed to override the safety limits  on the UPS devices  and overcharge the lead acid batteries in the battery room  filling the space up with hydrogen gas.  After breaking the fans and cutting off backup power,  the malicious firmware  repeatedly re-engages the UPS autotransformer,  creating a spark to ignite an explosion.  There are enough batteries to produce enough hydrogen gas  to level the building.  When you hacked Evil Corp,  you gave us access to the backdoor.  You made it possible for us to infect them.  I coded the femtocell malware for Darlene.  But it wasn't supposed to be for this.  The conference call leak, I must admit,  was quite cute a nice distraction.  But this  is for us.    All of us.    I'm gonna rip his fuckin' face off!  This fucker thinks he can hurt my girl.  What's his address?  Tell me his address, 'cause I'm gonna go find him,  and I'm gonna fuckin' kill him.  (OBJECTS CRASH, SHATTER)  Are you done?  (OBJECTS CLATTERING)  If you're serious about punishing him  I am. I am.  Just tell me what to do, and I'll fuckin' do it.  I'll do it.  No questions asked.  - Just - Shh.  If you are serious about punishing him,  then you can do one thing for me.  What? Anything. Say the word.  You remember the night we met  at the E Corp party?  Yeah.  You were tending the bar that night.  You stayed late to clean up.  Yeah, that's what we always do after the  Then you saw Scott  coming down from the stairwell leading to the roof.  He was disheveled, out of breath, sweaty.  You were about to ask him if he needed anything,  but he was in such a hurry, he left without saying a word.  What are you talking about?  I didn't see anything like that.  Yes, you did.  No.  I remember because the cops were asking every one of us  questions about that night, and like I told them  cleaned up my station, and I went home.  Derek, you said you were serious about punishing him.  (LAUGHS) Yeah, but Joanna  Look at my face, Derek.  You want the man that did this to me  to do what he did and get away with it?  But Joanna, I  Once you tell the cops your story,  they're gonna ask you why you're just now confessing  after months of silence.  You're gonna tell them that you were scared  that Scott Knowles intimidated you.  That when Tyrell went missing,  you didn't think any of that mattered anymore.  But your conscience got the better of you.  This is how we win.  This is how we punish him.  You understand?  Thank you.  Thank you for protecting me.  Of course, babe. I love you.  Now, let's go over it again.  - We can't do this. - You want us to stay on target?  This is the target. This gets us to the top.  I know we've been operating under top secret  on this program, but I think it's worth the risk.  This girl's being a wise-ass.  She thinks she's smarter than we are.  That's because so far she has been.  We got to show her we're smarter.  Unless she thinks we're worthy,  none of this is gonna fly.  Just trying to sidestep the mines, like you said.  We've been building this plan for three months.  Look around you.  All our leads are getting killed and disappearing.  We've lost three suspects.  Dark Army's cleaning house.  So that must mean something is about to go down.  Our window is closing.  Every lead we've been following up to this point  has led to a dead end.  Yeah, I'm gonna bring the ADIC in on this.  Please, you're gonna let him try and flip her?  She's gonna shut down.  I'm right for this.  Then I'm gonna go in with you.  Let me do it alone.  I know her.  I am her.  And if we're doing this,  we're doing this now.  (BUZZER)  We have 6,332 agents  working on just this case alone.  It's the hardest case I've ever worked on  and probably the hardest one I ever will.  Swear to God, the only reason  why I think I've gotten this far  Is because I have no life.  (SMALL LAUGH)  It's the only thing I've been able to think about.  Now I'm sitting here with you  In this awful room.  And no matter what story gets written in the final analysis,  we've both been a part  of one of the biggest events in world history.  Believe what you want.  But neither you nor I  are special.  I've already learned that lesson.  If you're open to changing your mind,  I'd like to show you something.  Come with me.  You're a lot more special than you think.  (DRAMATIC MUSIC)    The moth don't care when he sees the flame     He might get burned, but he's in the game     And once he's in, he can't go back   He'll beat his wings   Till he burns them black   No, the moth don't care when he sees the flame     The moth don't care when he sees the flame     The moth don't care   Sure, the strategy was risky, but  we knew we only had one shot.  The flame and the moth got a sweetheart deal  If we rounded everyone up, guns blazing,  we thought we would never get the man in the middle.  And with the stakes being this high,  it was imperative that we got him  before he knew we were getting him.  No, the moth don't care if the flame is real   So we sat back  and waited.  They call it the python approach.    They'll lie in wait  for the right moment to strike.  You know some can go up to a year without eating?  And once he's in, he can't go back   The patient predator.  He'll beat his wings till he burns them black     And then Romero's death made you all scurry.  When he sees the flame   Funny enough, you thought Dark Army was involved.  As it turns out, it was just a stray bullet  from the neighbor next door.  Freak accident.  The moth don't care if the flame is real     The flame and the moth got a sweetheart deal     And nothing fuels a good flirtation   Like need and anger and desperation     No, the moth don't care if the flame is real     The moth don't care if the flame is real     So come on, let's go   Ready or not     'Cause there's a flame I know   Hotter than hot     And with a fuse that's so   Thoroughly shot   (MUSIC STOPS)  You've got to be fucking kidding me.  I've tried everything.  I fought him. I OD'd on Adderall.  I made peace with him. I even got myself arrested.  No matter what I do, he always finds a way.  Why?  That's all I want to know.  Why is it so important for you to torment me?  What is it that you care so much about?  What's this all for?  I'm not tormenting you.  After everything you've put me through,  you continue to lie?  I didn't lie to you.  He's alive, man!  He's sitting right fucking there!  You made a plan with the Dark Army.  When was that?  The night of the hack?  What is stage two?  The femtocell, the backdoor?  You planned all of that with him?  You can't look at it like this.  You're me. I'm you.  You figured that out. We're the same guy.  Everything you're blaming me for  you're blaming yourself for.  Stop talking in circles.  You got Whiterose to get us out of prison.  The release that was you.  You somehow communicated with them.  It's what you wanted.  You said to Darlene before we started this thing  that we had to go all the way.  It was all part of the plan.  Otherwise, what was the point of the hack?  If we were going to do this, we had to go all the way.  And that, Elliot, is what I want.  It's what you asked me here for.  Then tell me, what is that, exactly?  What is "all the way"?  This is where we get into trouble.  You're meant to know only as much as you can handle.  When you wander outside of your realm  is when we end up fighting.  Are you  you distracting me right now?  (KEYBOARD KEYS CLACKING)  (SUSPENSEFUL MUSIC)    What are you doing?  I'm hacking the firmware like we discussed.  We didn't discuss shit.  We're not hacking anything.  This will level that building and kill people.  Elliot, you need to leave that computer alone.  - I'm confused. - It's over.  I'm deleting the malware.  Elliot, I wouldn't do that.  You can't delete that.  Not only am I gonna delete it,  I'm gonna get rid of the backdoor.  You do that, and everything we worked for is gone.  Elliot, I am warning you  This isn't what I want.  I want it shut down.  But this was your idea.  (SOMBER MUSIC)    Leave the computer alone!  He's not gonna let you do this.  Trust me.  (CLICK)  (TENSE MUSIC)    I don't know what's gotten into you.  We're supposed to be gods together,  and yet you want to destroy our destiny?  You're not making sense.  Elliot, listen to him.  Walk away from the computer.    You're the same.  (SHOUTING) What the fuck are you talking about?  We are definitely not the same!  Back away from the computer.    This is just another of Mr. Robot's mind tricks.  No.  Elliot  I don't want to shoot you, but I will.  Elliot, listen to him.  He's not holding a gun.  He's not even there.  Elliot, you need to listen to him  and step away from the computer!  Touch that keyboard, and I will shoot you.    No.    He won't.  He can't.  He doesn't exist.    I'm the only one that exists.    It's time to finally take back control.  (SUSPENSEFUL MUSIC)    Real control.    (GUNSHOT)  (SHELL CLATTERS)  (EXHALES) Ah  (SHAKY BREATHING)  You know, when you gave me this,  you said to stop anyone who gets in the way of our plan.  I didn't know what you meant, but now it's very clear.  You did this to yourself, Elliot.  You asked earlier what "all the way" is.  This is it.  (VOICE STATICKY) Sorry, kiddo.  (BREAKING UP) I couldn't let anyone stop this  including us.  Thanks for staying with us, Codyites.  There's a lot to get to tonight.  Look, all we do here is  is we try and bring you the truth.  And they're trying to take that away.  (PHONE BUZZES) They tried to take it away.  Some of you might notice your lights flickering tonight.  Now, the fa  - (PHONE CONTINUES BUZZING) - (NO AUDIO)  Hello?  Don't worry. It's Angela.  - (HEAVY BREATHING) - Tyrell?  Tyrell, are you there?  It's okay.  They told me you would be calling.  This is a secure line.  Are you with Elliot right now?  Yes.  Okay, I'm on my way.  Don't let anyone near him.  I should be the first person he sees when he wakes up.  (SIGHS) Okay.  Tyrell, you did what needed to be done.  - I love him. - (CRYING)  I do too.  - (POWER-DOWN HUM) - (CLANK)  (TIRES SCREECHING)  - (CAR ALARMS BLARING) - (CAR HORNS BLASTING)  ("We've Got Tonight" plays)    I know it's late   I know you're weary   And I know your plans   Don't include me   Still here we are   (CONTINUES TINNILY)  Both of us lonely   Longing for shelter   From all that we see   Why should we worry   No one will care, girl   Look at the starlight   So far away   We've got tonight   Who needs tomorrow   Have you given any more thought to what I said?  I don't want to discuss this.  - Mobley - Fredrick.  (SONG CONTINUES PLAYING)  Seriously, Fredrick,  what if we could?  This might work.  And also, it might not.  I've taken enough risks for one lifetime.  I don't want to discuss it anymore.    But what if we could generate the keys  Tanya (CLEARS THROAT)  Will you just please shut up?  What? This is important.  - We need to talk about it. - Change the subject.  I don't want to change the subject.  I miss my family.  I don't want to live here.  Oh, come on, it's nice out here.  You know, uh look, no more bad winters.  Hardly rains. That's great.  I hate your friend. He's a dick.  No, I-I told you.  He did not know you were in the bathroom.  Trust me, he knew exactly what he was doing.  Weirdo. Save up enough money,  and you'll be able to get your own place eventually.  Okay? Apartments here are dirt cheap.  Won't be that long.  Just be thankful he was able to get us this job.  (SONG CONTINUES)  Both of us lonely  Hey, what flavor did you get again?  You want to trade?  Please, just look at it.  Okay, so so what? Say I did.  Then what?  If what I discovered is real, do you know what that means?  Yeah, I know exactly what it means.  Yeah. It means we could  potentially undo this whole thing.  Put everything back the way it was.  I know. I know.  Please.  Just look at what I found.  Excuse me.  Oh, sorry, dude. We're on a break.  Yeah, I just had a quick question.  Do you have the time?
