REESE: When you find that one person who connects you to the world you become someone different. Someone better. When that person is taken from you what do you become then? MAN: Whatever you wanna do, you know? Unh. What? Hmm? What, where did you get that, in a cereal box? Huh? You wanna see a real gun? Forget you. Every punk is carrying. That's why your father wanted us to take the car home. Relax. Picking up new hardware next week. Restore a little order. Besides, when we take the car, we don't get to meet new friends. Like this guy. [CHUCKLES] You bring enough for the whole group? Time to teach you about sharing. [ALL GRUNTING] [ANTON COUGHING] [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] I'll need a statement from the bum. Which hospital did they take him to? Declined treatment. We got video on it though. You know, you could've done me a favor and let those guys land a couple more punches. Question for you. Looking at that tape, I'd say you spent some time in the service. I did. Army. Two tours in Iraq. But you don't learn how to fight like that in the regular army. So, what were you? Special Forces? Delta? I'm Carter. You didn't give us a name. You know, it's funny. Best parts of your life you don't need a name. You get to be "Dad," "sweetheart," "pal." Seems like the only time you need a name now is when you're in trouble. So am I in trouble? I don't know. You tell me. You're the one living on the street. You're not from here, are you? What, you're just passing through? I came to find an old friend. Yeah, making that transition back can be tough. Some guys I knew got a little lost. That disconnect between what they were trained to do and what they were expected to do when they got home. Some of them just needed a little help adjusting. You need some help? Of course, some other guys I knew they had done so many evil things they felt like they needed the punishment. That sound more like your story, "pal"? Excuse me for a second. ATTORNEY: I'm here for my client. TECH: Wow. Wow, wow. Your guy's prints were found in half a dozen crime scenes over the years. Open warrants in four different countries. Missing Persons here in Queens, '07, three guys disappeared. Who you got down there, Carter? The angel of death? I appreciate the help, counselor. But who's picking up the tab? Our employer wants to have a word with you. [ENGINE STARTS] [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] Do I owe you money? Because I'm, uh, running a little short at the moment. FINCH: You don't owe me anything, Mr. Reese. That's the name you prefer, isn't it? I know you've had several. Don't worry. I'm not gonna tell anybody about you. You don't know anything about me. I know exactly everything about you, Mr. Reese. I know about the work you used to do for the government. I know about the doubts you came to have about that work. I know that the government, along with everybody else, thinks you're dead. I know you've spent the last couple of months trying to drink yourself to death. I know you're contemplating more efficient ways to do it. Which would be a shame. So you see, knowledge is not my problem. Doing something with that knowledge that's where you'd come in. Who sent you? Nobody sent me. You can call me Mr. Finch. I think you and I can help one another. I don't think you need a psychiatrist or a support group or pills. What do I need? You need a purpose. More specifically, you need a job. FINCH: Eight million people. You know what they all have in common? None of them knows what happens next. Good things, maybe. But for some of them, not so good. Someone is murdered in New York City every 18 hours. It's like Musical Chairs. At the end of the day, one of these people will be gone. Bad things happen to people every day. - You can't stop that. - What if you could? Not things that happen in the heat of the moment. But so many crimes are planned days, weeks in advance. What if you could stop those? Let me guess you're a psychic. Ha, ha. No psychic, no magic. None of that. It's funny, when I was a kid I wanted a jet pack, I wanted a summer house on Mars. Then I realized I was living in the Information Age. This was a shocking disappointment to me until I realized how revolutionary it was. All of us are leaving a trail of information in our wake. Most of it's useless. There's something hidden in all that mess. A faint outline of things to come. The right person in the right place with the right information could change everything. This is the problem I have, Mr. Reese I've got a list. A list of people who are about to be involved in very bad situations. Murders, kidnappings. - Where did you get this list? - Can't tell you, you'll have to trust me. The people that are on my list, they have no idea that anything's about to happen. Most of them are just ordinary people. Like who? - Like her. - Thank you. FINCH: Her name is Diane Hansen. And this week, she's at the top of my list. Think something bad is gonna happen involving her? FINCH: It's not that simple. I don't know exactly what's gonna happen or what her role in it is. She might be the victim. She could be the perpetrator. All I know is that she is involved. I want you to follow her. Figure out what's gonna happen. And stop it from happening. Why not call the police? If anybody knew I had this list, it would be problematic. You would name your own salary, expenses, whatever you need. So, what do you think? I think you're a bored rich guy. I think that woman's your ex-wife or someone you rode in an elevator with. Either way, I think I'm done. [GUARDS GRUNT] [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] WOMAN [ON TV]: Police are looking for a homeless man for further questioning. The unidentified man was originally believed to be the victim of a violent assault on a subway. But now police consider the man a person of interest in a number of crimes nationwide. [MEN GRUNTING ON TV] REESE: Hey, sweetheart, what's wrong? Jessica, what's wrong? [PHONE RINGING] [GRUNTING] [PHONE CONTINUES RINGING] FINCH [OVER PHONE]: You need to understand, Mr. Reese. The information I have is incomplete. But it's never wrong. You need to know what it would be like to be forced to listen to someone get murdered and not be able to do anything about it. [LINE CLICKS] [WOMAN SCREAMING THROUGH WALL] MAN 1: Shut up! [BANGING] WOMAN: Rick, no! [WOMAN SCREAMING] [WOMAN GROANS ON RECORDING] MAN 2 [ON RECORDING]: Kill 138.7, X-ray. Twelve, August, 2008, 1:37 a.m. Too late. This recording is three years old. A woman murdered in this room by her husband. For the insurance. You were too late for her. Just like you were too late for your friend Jessica. You were halfway around the world when she was killed. - What the hell do you know about it? - It's the truth. You left the government because they lied. I never will. A man with your skills could make a lot of money in this world but you don't do it. I think all you ever wanted to do is protect people. That's a wiretap recording. NSA or FISA. Government. - But you're not government. - No, I'm not. I guess you could call me a concerned third party. You couldn't have saved this woman. Or your friend. But you could have if you had known in time. That's the other thing I'm offering you. A chance to be there in time. It's not too late for her. You could help me stop what's about to happen. The question is, will you? Diane Hansen. Grew up in Detroit. Moved to the city after law school. Single. - Does she have any enemies? FINCH: One or two. She's an assistant district attorney. The best conviction record in her department. Great. Nice short list of possible suspects. We have no idea when this bad thing might happen, huh? Could be in a week, could be five minutes. That's why we need to learn as much as we can about her. - How do you intend to begin? - The slow way. Cultivate a relationship. Engineering situations over weeks, months to allow you to earn the asset's trust. FINCH: And the fast way? Break into her home and go through all her stuff. REESE: What is this place? FINCH: The decline of Western civilization. The city closed half its libraries. Budget cuts. This building was sold to a bank that I control which promptly declared bankruptcy. So the property is in a kind of limbo. It doesn't exist. REESE: Neither do you. I did a little digging. I recognize, Mr. Reese, that there is a disparity between how much I know about you and how much you know about me. I know you'll be trying to close that gap as quickly as possible. But I should tell you I'm a really private person. What have you found out about our Ms. Hansen? Well, she's squeaky-clean. No debts, no attachments. But she is taking ulcer medication, sleeping pills so she's scared or stressed about something. Assuming she's the target, I'm going through her work e-mails case files, looking for anyone who stands out. I've got picture on her. But I need sound. I could hack her cell phone use the microphone to listen in, GPS to track her. But that takes gear that's a little hard to come by. Thought you might need that. - So I built one. - Oh. "Good with computers." Driver's licenses. Credit cards. Six cover identities. Funds to be replenished through a proxy corporation. Just like when you were with the agency. When I was with the agency I knew who was picking up the tab. This is your list? - The list? - Yup. REESE: But you don't get names, do you? These are Social Security numbers and each of them map out to a violent crime. - And all of these numbers represent - Lost chances. I could be more help if you'd tell me where you're getting these numbers. It doesn't matter where. What you need to know is that the next number is hers. Trust works both ways, Finch. If telling me where you're getting these numbers would put your life at risk It would put a lot more people than just me at risk. And I'd say trusting an alcoholic ex-government hit man is a greater challenge than trusting a middle-aged cripple. I have one more address for you to check out tonight. [PHONE DIALING] Okay, Mr. Finch. - What am I doing here? FINCH [OVER PHONE]: Sleeping. You have plenty to do tomorrow. What are you talking about? Who lives here? You do, Mr. Reese. Any luck finding Paul Bunyan? Turns out "bearded loner" covers a high percentage of the homeless population. Oh, thanks. Wait, is this the Missing Persons file from '07? MAN: Yes, ma'am. - This is all they had? MAN: Yep. REESE: Given Hansen's job, we've got hundreds of people who could be holding a grudge so I'm starting with the people she's worried about. I cut the list to three. The first is Lawrence Pope, the man Hansen is currently prosecuting. FUSCO: When we got there, the scene was, uh, colorful. Five dead. One of them had managed to crawl despite the fact that this drug-slinging piece of trash shot him in the gut. - Your Honor. - Pardon me, Your Honor. Despite the fact that this drug-slinging piece of trash allegedly shot him in the gut. The person who made that call was Germaine Salts. - And he was friends with the defendant? FUSCO: Yeah, they were all friends. We figure that's how Pope knew the deal was going down. Turns out career criminals don't make trustworthy friends. Detective Fusco, when you interviewed Mr. Pope what did he tell you in his defense? FUSCO: He said if he'd shot the poor bastard he would've shot him in the head, quote, "Same as I always do," unquote. Said he wouldn't have left him there half dead, blubbering for his girlfriend. No more questions, Your Honor. HANSEN [OVER RADIO]: Detective you went a little off script in your testimony. You never told me about that conversation and it could clear Pope's name. What's it matter, we got the guy. It matters because it's my job to make sure the wrong people don't go to jail. Remember? Excuse me, I thought we were on the same team. You got time to talk? I could buy you dinner? - Busy. Another time? - Is something wrong? - I've been noticing lately HANSEN: No, I'm fine. Thank you. Thanks. REESE: The second person I'm looking into is Wheeler, her co-counselor. Another ADA? Why? Well, they dated for a few months last year. She broke things off, and 40% of murders involve some kind of romantic relationship. Also, Wheeler's divorced, one kid, alimony, upside-down on his condo career's stalled. HANSEN: I asked. I can't get the time off. Yeah, it is. It is a tough job. But I can look out for myself, you know that. Listen, Mom, I I know you haven't been cashing the checks. It's not charity, I'm your daughter. I know. I know you worry about me. I I'm fine. There's a third person you're looking into? Ex-convict named Charles Robinson. Hansen and Wheeler prosecuted him three years back, armed robbery. Robinson wrote them love letters from prison. He's the first one I'm gonna be looking into. Robinson was released two months ago. Hansen pulled his file last week. [DOOR UNLOCKS] Don't move. I don't have much but you're welcome to take whatever you need. I've been where you've been. I don't think Robinson is our man. He burned through a box of highlighters on his King James Bible none of it Old Testament. - None of it Revelations. - Fine. One down. [COMPUTER BEEPS] Hansen's on the move. She's phoning county lockup, arranging a meeting with Pope. Alone. Isn't my lawyer supposed to be here? I can call him, but the reason I'm here is I don't think you murdered those people. I think somebody else was in the house when that 911 call was made. Somebody who told you what was said, which means you weren't there. Is it somebody you're trying to protect? POPE [OVER PHONE]: You're gonna help me? Is that it? Where you from, Ohio? I met DA's before, you do a couple years of this then try for a high-dollar job at a law firm. What happened, you get left behind? I know a guy that'd put you to work out on a corner. Oh. Close. I grew up in Michigan. Brightmoor. You know where that is? I don't think you would've lasted very long there, Lawrence. I know what it's like to want to get out of a place so bad you'd be willing to do almost anything. And that's why I know, if you're gonna take the fall for this you must be very scared. Now the person who knows what happened must be somebody you care about. Is it your younger brother Michael? Pope's got a brother. It's in his case file. - Got it. - Did he see the real killers? You should leave this alone, lady. I can do the time. Figure I'll make amends for all the things you never caught me on. Because I'm bad. These people, they're evil. Kill anyone they want. They're protected. Keep asking, they'll kill me and my brother. - And probably you too. - You can trust me. We'll take care of you and your brother. If the killers are out there, I'm gonna find them. It's my job. Now, why don't? Bitch, you keep your damn mouth shut or I'll shut it for you. [GASPING] [GRUNTING] I'm fine. Okay. She's okay. She's okay. Finch? You were right about Hansen. Whoever framed Pope will be coming after her, and only Pope's brother knows who they are. [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] JESSICA [OVER PHONE]: Hi, Mom. It's Jessica. I'm just down in Mexico with Cindy, and I'll be back tomorrow. Okay? Talk soon. Bye. REESE: Cindy? - Yeah. REESE: I look like a Cindy? - Yeah. I didn't tell her about us yet. It's been six months. You haven't told your mom you left your ex? Maybe you're starting to think you got a bum deal trading an officer for an enlisted man. I wish this weekend could go on forever. Already has. It's Tuesday. Which means you have to go back to the base and I'm not gonna see you again for two weeks, which I hate. Then ask me to stay. I will. I'll quit. - I'll quit. - Okay, then quit. I already did. - What? - Yeah. I didn't wanna take the chance that you wouldn't be here when I got back. I've been training my whole life for something that's never gonna happen. Everybody's too damn rich to go to war. I'm obsolete and I love it. Because it means I get to be with you. I get my discharge in a month. Then I'm gonna buy a boat. And you get to be my first mate. But first we need some more tequila. [MAN SPEAKING IN SPANISH ON TV] [REESE CHUCKLING] Sweetheart, what's wrong? Jessica. What's wrong? Uh, it's New York. I don't know. I don't know. Something happened this morning. - Is it a plane crash? - I think it's two. I think it's two planes. [MAN CONTINUES SPEAKING IN SPANISH ON TV] [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] HANSEN [OVER PHONE]: Thanks. - You went to see Pope last night? HANSEN: Yeah. I gave him one more chance to turn in his accomplice. Cut a deal. - He give you anything? HANSEN: No, as usual. I'm, uh I'm late. REESE: She's trying to track down Pope's brother. He can ID the real killers. And she's stonewalling Wheeler. What, does she think he's involved? Remember Pope said they were protected from on high. REESE: Wait a second. Turns out there's a good reason she doesn't trust Wheeler. He might be working with the killers, and they're after Michael Pope. We better get to this kid before someone else does. [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] [BELL RINGS] [STUDENTS CHATTER] Michael? Can I talk to you for a second? - I got a message from your brother. - You don't know him. Not exactly. I know what you saw. I'm not the only one looking for you. You need to come with me. Hey. Hey. Help me. Hey, this man is trying to put me into a taxicab with him. He's trying to take pictures of me. - What's going on? - How you doing? - Michael Pope's still on the subway. - Yeah. When he comes up for air you can use the GPS on your phone to find him. If Pope's right about these guys, I'm gonna need more than a cell phone. About that, I don't like firearms very much. Neither do I. But if someone has to have them I'd rather it was me. Besides, my friend from the subway has a line on some. Lightly used. Steep discount. [RAP MUSIC PLAYING ON STEREO] Let's roll, let's roll Let's rock, let's rock Rock, roll Rock, roll Hit the block Hit the block Let's roll, let's roll Let's rock, let's rock - Uh, what about this one? - Are you planning on buying that one? - I'm just - Put it back on the table before somebody else kicks your ass. REESE: Have you guys seen the men's room? Hey, Anton. Good to see you again. You know this guy? Wow, that's some pretty serious equipment. Have you guys taken a safety course? Take you, for instance. You're holding that thing sideways. You can't aim it, and two, it'll eject a shell casing right into your face. See? [ALL GRUNTING] [WOUNDED MEN GROANING] I'm gonna hold on to these while you guys get some more practice. Have a nice day. Who the hell was that? All right, you're in. REESE: Wheeler's got a secret file on Hansen, Finch. Old cases they worked together. Sounds interesting. Pictures please. Wait, wait, someone's coming. It's Hansen. Okay, now. You can go. Go, go, go. Reese? I got a signal from your phone. REESE: Tell me you found Michael Pope. He's the only one who knows who's after Hansen. I found him, but somebody else found him first. Listen. Oh, Mikey. You were gonna tell him all about us, weren't you? Hmm? - Head uptown. - Are you hearing this? REESE: STILLS: Gonna put a couple in the back of his head. Make it look like a gang thing. You gotta do something. REESE: Relax. I'm on it. Keep the change. [GROANING] [GRUNTS] You're crazy. We're both dead now. - Do you know who they are? - I do now. They're cops. Come on. REESE [ON MONITOR]: What exactly have you gotten me into? FINCH [ON MONITOR]: I don't know. That's the whole point. I hired you to help me figure that out. Here. I think we're up against a group of corrupt cops. I think their next target is Hansen. But I don't know for certain. I don't know anything because you won't tell me where you're getting your information. When the towers came down, you were in a hotel in Mexico. I was here. I was working. Didn't know about the attacks until that evening. You see, Mr. Reese, until that day, I had spent the better part of my life making myself very rich. Suddenly all that money didn't seem to amount to much. Do you have a phone? Could you turn it off? Let's walk. Then I got a telephone call from an old friend at the Pentagon. After the attacks the government gave itself the power to read every e-mail, listen to every cell phone. But they needed something that could sort through it all. Something that could pick the terrorists out of the population before they could act. They tried. Able Danger, SpiNNaker, TIA. But they were all failures. Well, their biggest failure was bad PR. The public wanted to be protected. They just didn't wanna know how they were. So when they finally got a system that worked, they kept it secret. So how do you know about it? I built it. "Good with computers." Remember? But there was a problem with this machine. I had built it to prevent the next 9/11. But it was seeing all sorts of crimes. So I had to teach the machine to divide the things it saw into two lists: Relevant and irrelevant. Events that would cause massive loss of life were relevant. So those would be passed along to the NSA or the FBI. REESE [ON MONITOR]: And the irrelevant information? Every night, at midnight, the machine erases it. It was only later that I realized my mistake. The whole point of Pandora's Box, once you open it, you can't close it. The idea of that irrelevant list was eating away at me. All those people with no idea what was coming for them. So where is the machine now? What, the drives? Who knows? A government facility somewhere. But the machine? The machine is everywhere. Watching us with 10,000 eyes. Listening with a million ears. MAN: What did I tell you about sending e-mails? WOMAN [ON MONITOR]: You could move in. MAN: Never put anything in an e-mail you cannot own. You gave yourself a way to communicate with it? I was building the government a tool of unimaginable power. I thought maybe an off switch would come in handy. - So I built myself a backdoor into it. - To access the irrelevant list. Just a Social Security number. If anyone ever found out, I'd lose access. So nine digits. That's all we get. And we have no idea why it picked Diane Hansen? It wouldn't be steering us toward her if it wasn't seeing something. I don't know if I can protect Hansen. I can't see the whole picture. I offered you a job, Mr. Reese. Never said it would be easy. KANE: Hey, Carter. - Yeah. KANE: You hear about your pal Anton? - No. Him and his father tried to buy guns, wound up getting shot. - Are they dead? KANE: Nope. Embarrassed. They got taken out by one guy. In a suit. [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] We've got all the parts. Question is, how do they all fit together? Stills is narcotics. Him and his men get word of deals. They steal the drugs, the cash, and kill all the witnesses. Then they get Fusco to frame up guys like Lawrence Pope for murder. Exactly. They've already killed five people. - Six. - What? Lawrence Pope was stabbed to death last night in his cell. They're trying to cover their tracks. They couldn't pull this off without someone on the inside at the DA's office. That's Wheeler. He's been spying on Hansen and pulling their old case files. Including the one for Robinson. The same Robinson that sent Wheeler and Hansen death threats from prison. They looking for someone they can frame like they framed Pope? No, I think they found him. But what do we do? We stop them. STILLS [OVER PHONE]: You wanted to meet? Remsen and Avenue D in Canarsie, 20 minutes. Finch, it's happening now. HANSEN: Hello? Are you here? Hello? You're gonna keep me waiting? We don't have time. What's your problem? Pope is dead. His brother is gone, and we're still searching for the clown who took him. The problem is Wheeler, you idiot. He knows. He knows about Pope and maybe some of the others. We should have taken care of this guy weeks ago. I even found a shooter for you. - Stop dragging your feet on this. - How long do we have? Twenty-four to 48 hours before he goes to the DA, tops. I can take care of the files at the office. Take care of Wheeler. Tonight. FUSCO: Hey, look what I found. We've got ourselves a groupie. Heavily armed too. - You know this guy? - No. You're not law enforcement. Cartel finally grow some stones? Who the hell are you? Concerned third party? Ha, ha. He's alone, that's what he is, so he doesn't matter. Take care of him. And, uh, get rid of Wheeler tonight. Make it look clean. Hey, Stills. You screw this up, I won't let it get to me. I'll take care of you just like I took care of Pope. I can look after myself. You know that. - Nice spot. - It's Oyster Bay. Glad you like it. You're gonna be here a long, long time. I'm curious was there a point where you knew you'd become a bad guy? I got a mortgage to pay, same as everybody else. I woke up one day and I realized I gotta guard these assholes on Wall Street robbing everybody. Stealing more than my annual salary in an afternoon. So I said, what the hell? I don't believe you. See, I've been watching you, Lionel and I think there's a big difference between you and your friends. Your heart's not really into it. Stills, he does it for money. But I think you do it because you're loyal. What's the difference? It's why I'm gonna let you live. [LAUGHING] [BOTH LAUGHING] Yeah. I'm considering sticking around New York for a while. If I do, I'm gonna need someone on the inside. And you might come in handy. - So I'm working for you now? - That's right. But I've got two rules. One, you so much as hurt anybody, and I'll kill you. I don't particularly like killing people, but I'm very good at it. And two, you have to be more careful. For instance, if you're gonna put someone in your car you have to search them properly. What the? [GRUNTS] [SHOUTING] FUSCO: What are you doing? You have your vest on, officer? Yeah. [FUSCO GROANING] [COMPUTER BEEPS] - Where the hell have? REESE: There's no time. We were wrong. Hansen isn't the target. She's the ringleader. They're going after Wheeler. Tonight. [TIRES SQUEALING] Yo, Wheeler's up there. He heads to the gym most nights. I got Doyle upstairs. Place is a dump. There's no doorman, no cameras, nobody. We'll take him in the lobby. Soon as it's done, we take the shooter out. Give him a block, take him out. Head shots this time, understand? - Yeah, yeah. - Get our friend out of the trunk. - Who is this guy? STILLS: Some ex-con Wheeler put away. Azarello, lights. - Doyle, talk to me. - He's coming out now. Come on, Henry, let's go. - Wait. - Remember that basketball game we're supposed to go to? - He's got his kid with him. What a waste. WHEELER: Better watch out. You're a very bad man, Charles. You're about to kill a man. And his son. Please. Please don't do this. Drop your weapon. WHEELER: I think that's true, actually. You keep working on it, you'll be able to throw that fast. - Really? - Absolutely. Let him go. I can't do that. I let him go, my friends and I go to jail. [SHOUTS] Drag your friend outside and take him to the hospital. Right now. I think I kill you and your friend here. Make it look like you killed each other. Then, just because you pissed me off I'm going to kill your family, and all your friends. I don't have any friends. I don't have any family left, either. Left them all behind. Went around the world looking for bad guys. But there were plenty of you, right here, all along. [GUNFIRE] [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] ATTORNEY: So now, essentially, you're telling us you couldn't see what was happening in the parking lot at all. - I'm done, Your Honor. SMITH: Ms. Hansen? The state isn't paying you by the hour, counselor. Why don't we have the defendant tell you in her own words? Let's listen to the 911 call she made. HANSEN [ON RECORDING]: And, hey, take care of Wheeler, tonight. Make it look clean. Stills, you screw this up, I won't let it get to me. I'll take care of you just like I took care of Pope. I can look after myself. You know that. [GRUNTS] [GROANS] You ready to get to work, officer? I'm no good to you. I'm dead. Just a matter of time before the gangs get me. - Or IA. - No one knows you're involved. I took care of that. Besides, they'll be too busy looking for Stills. The police'll think he's run for it. The gangs and the mob will think he's gone Witness Protection. - Is that where he is, Witness Protection? - No, Lionel. He's in the trunk. I gave him a choice and he chose wrong. Only problem is, uh, well, I had to shoot him with your gun. You'd have a hard time explaining that one. So, ha, ha, you'll be taking another trip. But I'm not coming along this time. - Where am I going? - Oyster Bay. Where no one's gonna find him for a long, long time. I'll be in touch. [CHUCKLES] You have a decision to make. The machine gave you another number. The numbers never stop coming. You should know that up front. Two questions. First why me? I've been watching you for a long time, John. We have more in common than you might think. The world thinks we're both dead, for starters. You said two questions. You programmed the machine to delete those irrelevant numbers. But now you're trying to save them. What changed your mind? Let's just say you're not the only one that's lost someone. If you wanna leave, I'll give you enough money to get as far as you need. Disappear. And if I stay? They'll come looking for you. The police, the mob, your old friends at the CIA. If you stay and we continue to do this sooner or later, both of us will probably wind up dead. Actually dead, this time. I said I'd tell you the truth. I didn't say you'd like it. CARTER: Start talking, officer. - You think I'm gonna rat on my friends? Please, you can tell the DA all about your crooked pals. I wanna know about him, the guy who came after you. I don't know anything. He was just some guy alone. In a suit. You're gonna tell me everything you don't know about him and where I can find him. [CHATTERING ON MONITOR]
FINCH: You are being watched. The government has a secret system. A machine that spies on you every hour of every day. I know because I built it. I designed the machine to detect acts of terror, but it sees everything. Violent crimes involving ordinary people. People like you. Crimes the government considered irrelevant. They wouldn't act, so I decided I would. But I needed a partner. Someone with the skills to intervene. Hunted by the authorities, we work in secret. You will never find us. But victim or perpetrator, if your number's up, we'll find you. [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] MAN: Hey, it's me. Yeah, sorry, I got tied up here at work. I was thinking we could grab a bite, okay? Usual place? Okay. See you in 30. Yeah, bye. REESE: Hold it. Almost missed it. Those for your wife? Uh, yes. I thought your wife liked roses. Excuse me? Do I know you? No. But I know you, Bill. Little relationship advice: If you're gonna step out on your wife, you need to think it through. Do you work here? Because if you do, you're fired. I'm more like an independent contractor. Now, you don't seem like a bad guy, Bill. You and your wife are having problems. It happens. Now, some women would just leave you. But some women, they might just hire a couple of guys to come to your office dismantle your surveillance cameras to make it look like a robbery gone wrong. [GUNFIRE] [BELL DINGS] [HIT MEN GROANING] I would call the police. And a good divorce lawyer. [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] [PHONE RINGING ON MONITOR] MAN [OVER PHONE]: I got a job for you. High priority. Triple your usual fee. What's the name? [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] [DIALING] [CELL PHONE RINGS] - Heck, yeah. Taxi! FINCH: Yes? REESE [OVER PHONE]: Good morning, Finch. No problems last night. Two hit men were waiting to kill the guy just like you said they'd be. I took care of it. Good. You should get some rest. Thought I'd do a little research. FINCH: I'll be interested to hear what you discover. We need to meet later. REESE: Your machine kick out another number? Somebody else who's gonna be involved in a crime? FINCH: This one is somewhat unusual. I'll let you know where to go. And, Mr. Reese, we'll meet on my schedule. Not yours. DETECTIVE: Detective Carter. Aren't you Homicide? Don't have any cold ones, just a couple of guys ain't ever gonna play golf again. It's part of an ongoing investigation. What do we know about the shooter? This rich guy was on his way home, said a couple of guys tried to kill him. This other gentleman quote, "intervened," unquote. Let me guess. Some guy in a suit? FINCH: How did your research go? Inconclusive. The number we've received is for a girl named Theresa Whitaker 15 years old. Some disciplinary trouble, but basically a good kid. Well the machine did spit out her number. So she must be caught up in something. Where can I find her? FINCH: As I told you, Mr. Reese this situation is somewhat unique. You see, Theresa Whitaker should be right here. She was murdered along with the rest of her family two years ago. REESE: So we're looking for a ghost? [BEEPING] [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] I thought you might still be here. I come bearing gifts. Whiskey. - Uh-huh. - And we won another award. [INGRAM CHUCKLES] Look, I know our deal, I schmooze the board, I cash half the checks I pick up the awards. You do most of the work. But honestly, this is getting exhausting for me. I'm perfectly happy with the division of labor. Always have been. - Ha, ha. - What's this one for? This is "for services to humanity." I didn't tell them we laid off half the staff to build this Orwellian nightmare. You said you wanted to make a difference. Give something back. Is this the government feeds? Direct from NSA at Fort Meade. That's every e-mail, every phone call, surveillance cameras In the country? No, that's just New York. I'm starting with the basics, trying to teach it to track people using cell-phone location data, facial recognition. Almost ready to move on to the next problem. What's the next problem? Sorting them all out. Terrorists don't stand out on street corners. We have to teach the machine to sift through e-mails. Wiretap phones. Bank transactions. Look for people that are hiding something. Living double lives. People like you, in other words. [INGRAM LAUGHS] How long will this take? Four, five more years. So this is? Everyone. [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] Nice spot. This is the last place Theresa Whitaker was seen alive. Two years ago, her father, Grant, takes the family for a weekend sail. No one comes home. Grant. He was a real-estate developer. Market crashed. He was upside-down on 14 properties. According to police, he shot his wife and kids then turned the gun on himself. Says here they found the bodies. Just the parents and the 18-year-old son. Theresa's body was never recovered. "Presumed dead." It's a reasonable assumption. The police only see what they choose to look for. The machine sees almost everything. If the girl's number has come up, she must be alive. Then why hasn't she shown up by now? With the police or a relative? I don't know. But if the machine is right and she's still alive, she won't be for long. Better find her. We'll need a police report on this. I'll have to talk to my friend in the department. [FUSCO GRUNTING] Hello, Lionel. You. Again. How the hell did you get in here? Took it off your friend Stills, the one I shot with your gun before you buried him out in Oyster Bay. I need you to pull a file for me. Right after you pull my IAD file. They got me one step from fighting off a cell block of degenerates that I sent upstate. They think I'm dirty. That's because you are dirty, Lionel. Look, your predicament is not my doing or my concern. Name's Theresa Whitaker. Two-year-old murder-suicide out in Bowery Bay. Get me the file. [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] I just can't believe that it came to this. We knew they were having financial issues but I never thought that he would do anything like this. That's because he didn't. Wish that he would have come to me. Wish that he would have reached out. This was a professional hit. Muzzle impressions were made after the fact. Made it look point-blank, like the father did it. Cops missed it. And you know that how? That's how I would've done it. So why didn't the shooter kill Theresa? That part I can't explain. Or why she hasn't shown up anywhere else. I tracked down a recent address for the aunt and uncle in Brooklyn Heights. Might know what kind of trouble Whitaker was in. I got a lead on another kid who might know her whereabouts. Sealed juvie record on Theresa. Seems she was picked up with an older boy for vandalism. Deacon Page. Since has been popped for shoplifting, carrying a concealed weapon. If Theresa didn't go to family, maybe she went to friends. We don't know how much time Theresa has left. Might need a little help, Finch. [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] [DOORBELL RINGS] Hello, Arthur Bellinger, Liberty State Mutual. - Elizabeth Whitaker? ELIZABETH: Yes? We wrote the term-life policies for Grant Whitaker. You and your husband, Derek, are listed as next of kin. Ex-husband. The divorce went through last year. Come in. FINCH: Thank you. In cases like this involving prolonged legal investigation it can take some time to settle out. I'm surprised my brother-in-law even kept up payments on life insurance. Does this mean they're gonna stop searching for Theresa? Her body, I mean. The police have concluded their investigation. You weren't satisfied? No. It's just We buried an empty coffin. They said that the current would have taken her body. And I was hoping that maybe it would, uh, bring her home. I'm sorry, this is just dredging up some really difficult memories. Not at all. I can only imagine. Derek never came out of the funk. Sometimes you just lose people. You don't have any contact information on your ex-husband? No. We've barely spoken since we split. I have an old cell phone number. Good luck tracking him down. Heh. You might wanna mention there's money involved. Have to ask, did you and Derek have any children? No kids. Now I'm not even an aunt. Smart as a whip, Theresa. I loved her like she was my own daughter. Unfortunately, you can't pick your parents. Unbelievable. I've got eight case files connected to this guy's prints. Half of them have been redacted. Here we go. Missing Persons '07. Your trigger-happy hobo, Carter. Only now he's a killer in a suit. KANE: Maybe he's a recovering diplomat. They pulled the whole file. Feds. This one's above your pay grade, Carter. FINCH [OVER PHONE]: Aunt's fine. Uncle's MIA. MIA? We've got no contact info? No answer on the phone. No forwarding address. - Where are you? - I've hit every skate-rat park in the city. Nothing but attitude on wheels. No sign of Theresa? REESE: No. But I think I just found our guy. DEACON: What the? What's your problem, fool? Two-hundred-dollar fine to skate in the park. Wanna know the last time you seen this girl, Deacon. Is this some kind of sick joke? Newsflash, chief. Old man went postal on her whole family. - She's dead. - Or maybe not. Maybe you've seen her around. DEACON: That girl is gone. Give me back my phone. [SKATER SPEAKING INDISTINCTLY] [CELL PHONE BEEPS] [MAN 1 GRUNTS] [MAN 2 GRUNTS] Theresa, wait. [HORN HONKING] DRIVER: Watch it, idiot! SASHA: Hi, Harold. - Hello. Morning, Harold. Listen, um, that database you're coding we're gonna need it a little faster, okay? You gotta keep up. Okay, I'll see what I can do, Dave. Not exactly what I expected. Software engineer of the month. It's very impressive, but it doesn't quite explain the private security. - The unlimited funds. FINCH: No. No, it wouldn't. I did some digging down in HR. Seems you've worked here for 17 years. Only been promoted twice. So how many of these people know you own the entire company? FINCH: None of them. The best place to hide, Mr. Reese, as you well know, is in plain sight. And if I speak too loudly? Say the wrong thing? The entire department could be overhauled. Some would be reassigned. Promoted. Some would be fired. REESE: I'll make it quick, then. The good news: The girl is alive and, um, kicking. Seems she has some trust issues. I, uh I lost her. But I did figure out how she's been providing for herself. - She left this at an ATM machine. FINCH: It's a skimmer. It captures account numbers and PINs. If she tries to sell these online, I might be able to track her down. In the meantime, we need to figure out who killed her family. And why. Her uncle's hiding from a dozen different creditors. But I'll find him. And I wanna look at Grant Whitaker's finances much more carefully. Good. Because this was a hit for hire. And I'm gonna look into the shooter. How? Find out where I can hire one. So who's your friend, Harold? Guy behind the bar's a fixer. Takes a piece of most contract killings in the city. If someone did wipe out the family, he might know who did it. Hey, you don't talk to people who just walk into the joint. Lionel, you worried about me? I'm touched. [REESE GRUNTS] Don't let me see you around here again. [GLASS BREAKING] [GUNSHOTS] [CRASHING] I got a name. Let's go. [LOCK BUZZES] Fusco's CI pointed me towards a contract killer named Solnick. Problem is Solnick got himself locked up for a separate job. [OVER PHONE] So I've arranged a visit. [LOCK BUZZES] Who are you? - My lawyer quit again? REESE: No. I'd like to talk to you about that family you murdered and dumped in the Bowery Bay. You don't want to talk about that one? How about some of the other people you killed? Like the brother of that gang leader that lives on your cell block. I'm sure he'd love to know his brother's last words. Hmm? Ah. I get it. You're like me. A killer. A genuine bad guy. Then I don't have to explain to you what happened to those people on that boat. You already know. What I don't know is why you let the girl live. I wouldn't have killed a girl. Not even if they paid me my quote. I told her if anyone ever knew she was alive, I'd finish the job. I don't kill kids. Had some punk on my cell block last week say he heard I did it. Told him the same thing. Who hired you to do it? Some guy I met one time. No names. Cash. Who hired you? REESE [OVER PHONE]: Guys who kill kids aren't popular in jail. Solnick's been defending his honor. The people that hired him may have found out he didn't kill Theresa. Maybe they hired somebody new to finish the job. [OVER PHONE] Why are they worried about a teenager? REESE: I don't know. But we need to figure it out. Fast. Oh, I think I may have a lead. Whitaker was sole investor in all his real-estate deals except one. He bought a couple parcels of land with a real-estate holding company, Landale. Landale. Send me the address. I'm on my way. [SPEAKING INDISTINCTLY] FINCH [OVER PHONE]: Landale Financial. Second floor. Thirty million or so in holdings. Principal is a guy named Calhoun. Calhoun's got a lot of security for a real-estate developer. Wait a second, who's this? I think I just found Theresa's uncle Derek. [OVER PHONE] Why would he turn up here? FINCH: That's gonna have to wait. Theresa just tried to sell those account numbers online. I'm tracing the IP address where she logged on. It's at 89th and West End. Get moving. REESE: Is it a wireless network? FINCH: It is. Maybe she's in one of the surrounding buildings. REESE: Hey, you got me pretty good back there. I'm not looking for a rematch. I know what happened to you and your family. I'm here to help you. Just leave me alone. The man that killed your family's in jail. No one's gonna hurt you again because I won't let them. You really shouldn't lie to kids. [BOTH GRUNTING] [GUNSHOTS] [GROANING] Theresa. Are you gonna trust me now? I don't know you. You're gonna need to trust someone. Don't worry, you're safe here. Ordered you room service. It's a $50 cheeseburger. Theresa the man who came after you at the laundromat you ever seen him before? Do you have any idea who targeted your family? No. Did it have anything to do with your uncle Derek? - Is that why you didn't come to him? - I don't trust him. Why? What my dad said. Before that man put a bullet in his head he said it was Derek's fault. [KNOCKING ON DOOR] Hello. Theresa, this is Harold. And he's gonna stay with you. FINCH: Nice room. REESE: Took the liberty of booking the whole floor. Your card. Guess I can use the miles. Theresa can't be left alone here. I better take this. And, uh, this. I need you to stay here with Harold. He'll take care of you. Where are you going? I'm gonna pay a man a visit. I hacked the uncle's cell-phone account. The GPS signal was active but he's not answering. Well, Landale's involved. Just not sure why they're still coming after her. Don't dawdle. [ROCK MUSIC PLAYING] Without you It's so hard to go on [CELL PHONE RINGING] DEREK: What the hell? What's the matter, Derek? You don't wanna talk to your dead brother? Get in the truck. I'll drive. Yeah, Derek. We need to talk. I left you a couple messages about that insurance guy who came by asking questions. He wants to talk to you. Something about Grant's assets coming out of probate. I gave him your cell. [BEEPING] ELIZABETH: Anyway, call me back, please. Sometime this year. [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] REESE: Remember this place, Derek? Where they dumped your brother's whole family in the water like chum? - What are you talking about? - I'm talking business, Derek. Landale Financial. Where you were yesterday. - Who the hell are you? - The deal your brother made. Greenpoint. Bunch of land out in Brooklyn ruined by an oil spill. And now you're cutting a deal with them. I tried to help Grant. You helped him, all right. Right into an early grave. With no will. Which means that land goes into probate. And then to you, Derek. Let me ask you this: Did you hire the hit man yourself? Or did you let Landale do it? I never meant for anyone to get hurt. Grant, he swore that Greenpoint was gonna be the big one. He didn't have enough to cover all the parcels, so I told him I knew these guys. Calhoun. Landale. - It all looked legit. - It's a front for dirty money. And you set your brother up with them. Grant swore it was gonna be a 10 bagger as soon as the government cleaned up the site. But like everything with the government, it took too damn long. Landale wanted their money out immediately. So they took him out along with everyone in his family. - Just to get their money back out. - Made me the administer of probate. It's the only reason why they didn't kill me. I'm supposed to sign it over to them next week. The kicker is that Grant was right. Government came through. They cleaned up the site. Now it's worth 40, 50 times what they put into it. So that's why they're still coming after her. Theresa is the legal heir to that property. Theresa, what? She's dead. She's alive. No thanks to you. If you'd come forward, cleared your brother's name she might not have spent the last two years hiding from you. You know, I went to see your Aunt Elizabeth. She seems like a lovely person. You tell her about me? No, of course not. But she did mention how much she missed you. She even showed me an old photo. You know there's no changing what happened to your family. But you do still have someone out there that loves you. Yeah? What do you know? I know what it's like to lose someone. And to feel the need to disappear. But trust me, you don't want to leave people behind. [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] When were you going to tell me? I wasn't gonna tell you, I guess. I'd rather I didn't know myself. INGRAM: All these people. And this damn machine knew. You knew that someone wanted to harm them kill them. And you did nothing? You knew what we were building here. This thing looks for plotters, for schemers. It looks for malicious intent. We built it to stop terrorists before they could act. But a machine doesn't understand the difference between those crimes that are relevant to national security and the ones that are irrelevant. Irrelevant? So you taught it the difference? You want to play God? Is that it? No, I don't. That's the whole point. There are exactly eight people in the world that know this thing exists. If anyone else ever found out, there'd be such an outcry they'd turn it off. The intelligence the machine produces has already foiled a half-dozen major terrorist plots. How are we supposed to live with this? Knowing that someone out there needs help? Well, we don't have to. I've coded the machine. Every night at midnight, it deletes the irrelevant list. We didn't build this to save somebody. We built it to save everybody. [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] Where's the girl? REESE: Kid's worth a fortune, Finch. Land the father bought panned out 50-fold. Landale wants it all. Killed the whole family. Expected to clean up after it cleared probate. Till they found out the girl was still alive. We know who ordered the hit? REESE: Calhoun. The father's business partner. I've got eyes on him. He's walking. So is Theresa. Gotta go. Wait, Theresa. You know I can't keep up with you. Can I ask you where you're going? - I'm better off alone. - And how's that? It's safer. I don't think so. Please, sooner or later, you're gonna have to trust someone. [DEREK PANTING] You can't kill me. They need me. Oh. See you have vastly overestimated your value in this process. They'll just hire another couple of lawyers. So I'll ask you one more time. Where's the girl? Kiss my ass. [SILENCED GUNSHOT] We appreciate your patience and support on this, councilman. You sure we're free and clear on this? CALHOUN: Rezoned for residential. Hell, you could break ground as early as next month. COUNCILMAN: Ha, ha. Jimmy Calhoun. I gotta hand it to you you really turned this around, saw what nobody else did in the property. This is a real game-changer. Thank you, sir. The good people of Brooklyn deserve it, sir. COUNCILMAN: Look forward to it, Jim. [OFFICERS CHATTERING] KANE: Hey. CARTER: Hey. Neighbor called it in. Thought they heard a dispute. - A dispute? - Yeah. Heh. You think? Thank goodness for vigilant neighbors, huh? Oh, yeah, found this stuffed in his mouth. We gotta find out who this girl is. [PHONE RINGING] [CELL PHONE RINGING] ELIZABETH [OVER PHONE]: Hello? Hello? Who is this? Hello? [LINE RINGS] WOMAN [OVER PHONE]: Thank you for calling the Fenwick New York. How can I assist you? [CELL PHONE BEEPING] [CALHOUN GRUNTS] Sorry. You really need to watch where you're going. Huh? Call off the dogs. Theresa Whitaker. Right now. It's too late. It's done. It's already done. [CALHOUN WHIMPERING] [DIALING] REESE [OVER PHONE]: He's coming, Finch, get off that floor. We have to go. Now. [BELL DINGS] FINCH: I can see him. He's coming down the hall. Going for the fuse box. He's gonna cut out lights in the hallway. He's gonna see the lights in our room. Quick, turn them all off. [LOCK SMASHES IN NEXT ROOM] Told you I should have left. You did. I'm sorry. Give me your phone. THERESA [THROUGH DOOR]: What are we doing? I don't understand. FINCH [THROUGH DOOR]: Just Just listen. [FINCH & THERESA SPEAKING INDISTINCTLY] FINCH: Shh, shh. THERESA [OVER PHONE]: This won't work. FINCH [OVER PHONE]: Be quiet. THERESA: He's right outside the door. FINCH: I know. No, no, no. Too slow. Come on, this way. We haven't got much time. He's here. Fire escape. You can go down. Go, go. You coming? I can't get through there. You have to go without me. I'm staying with you. [GUNFIRE] [PHONE RINGS] Yeah, Carter. REESE [OVER PHONE]: You've been asking a lot of questions about me. It's time we sat down face-to-face. - Who is this? - You know who. Wanna meet me or not? Go. [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] MAN [OVER RADIO]: Teams 1 and 2 in position, weapons hot. Wait for my signal. Be careful. - This guy's as dangerous as they get. MAN: Copy that. Sweetheart? What are you doing here? - Are you Detective Carter? - Yes. My friend said I could trust you. [OFFICERS SPEAKING INDISTINCTLY] Watch your head, Mr. Calhoun. So you can't tell me anything about how this man looks? Hotel staff said they might have seen two people coming and going. But there's nothing on the surveillance cameras. Was there anyone else helping you? It was a pretty traumatic experience. I don't remember much at all. [INAUDIBLE DIALOGUE] Theresa? [ELIZABETH SOBBING] SASHA: Are you looking for Harold? Is he taking another personal day? Heh. I don't think so. I was hoping you knew. Maggie said he'd been transferred. But Dave said he was laid off. He didn't even say goodbye. [CELL PHONE RINGS] And here I was thinking we were getting a little closer, Harold. I told you, I'm a very private person. You're gonna need to trust someone at some point. FINCH: Trust? That's not something I come by very easily. I have my reasons. Are you ever gonna tell me those reasons? Don't call me, Mr. Reese. [OVER PHONE] I'll call you.
FINCH: You are being watched. The government has a secret system. A machine that spies on you every hour of every day. I know because I built it. I designed the machine to detect acts of terror, but it sees everything. Violent crimes involving ordinary people. People like you. Crimes the government considered irrelevant. They wouldn't act, so I decided I would. But I needed a partner. Someone with the skills to intervene. Hunted by the authorities, we work in secret. You will never find us. But victim or perpetrator, if your number's up, we'll find you. [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] REESE: Good morning, Finch. - Don't you knock? - Not if I can help it. I felt bad about blowing your cover identity. Been, uh, looking for a new job for you. Dog walker maybe, or a concert pianist. I have a job, Mr. Reese, and so do you. The machine has sent us a new number. [FINCH GROANS] His name's Joey Durban a soldier in the 107th Infantry just back from Afghanistan. Army Commendation Medal, Purple Heart. - Guy was a fighter. - Just like you. I fought beside the 107th in Iraq. Most of them were just kids. Joined up because they lost family or friends when the towers came down. Over there, they grew up fast. Or they died. Well, at least Joey came home alive. And now you can help him stay that way. He works as a doorman at a building in midtown. I'm on it. Standard operating procedure? I'll clone his phone for voice and texts, then I'll start following him. And, uh, Finch, if you're gonna work all night you should try getting some exercise. [CAR HORN HONKS] JOEY: Heh, you look fabulous, Mrs. J. I'd ask you out myself, but I'd have to fight off Larry Segel. MRS. J: Ha, ha. Thank you, dear. JOEY: Robbie, I gotta take off early. REESE: Joey's engaged to a girl named Pia Moresco. She waited six years for him while he was deployed. JOEY: Yeah, come here. PIA: I love you. Hey, Finch. Finch, are you there? Yes, is there a problem? Unh. [FINCH GRUNTING] - What are you doing? - Nothing. Thought you said you'd never lie. FINCH: What's the problem, Mr. Reese? Our guy Joey Durban, been on him for eight hours. All he's done is open doors for old ladies and now he's window-shopping. If the machine's given us his number, he must be caught up in something. He got a text. It's a bit garbled. Sending it over. FINCH: "Anchor D0." This supposed to mean something? REESE: I don't know. You're the genius. [JOEY GRUNTS] [GUNSHOTS] [PEOPLE SCREAM] JOEY: Down, down. You, open the door. - I said get down. - Go, go. ROBBER 1: Get down. ROBBER 2: Get on the ground. ROBBER 3: Down on the ground. Open the door. JOEY: I said get down. - Head down. - Fifty seconds! JOEY: Head down. Don't look at me. [METAL DETECTOR WHINES] Forty seconds! Not a good idea, pal. Thirty seconds! Wrap it up! Ten seconds, Sierra! Move! Sierra, move! Enough! FINCH: I'm back, Mr. Reese. I've deciphered that text. It's a street address for a bank. No kidding, Finch. What I said about our guy being boring I take it back. [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] MAN [OVER PA]: Ladies and gentlemen, please do not leave bags unattended. Unattended bags will be JESSICA: John. [CHUCKLES] I didn't know you were back from over there. Jessica. I'm not. I'm just heading back, actually. Where's your uniform? Uh, I got a new job. One of those jobs you can't talk about? [CHUCKLES] [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] FINCH [OVER PHONE]: So our friend Joey's a bank robber. REESE: Is that why the machine gave us Joey's number? I built the machine to look for lethal intent. Armed robbery wouldn't normally make the cut. Either way, I say gift-wrap him and give him to the N.Y.P. D before someone winds up dead. Finch, the guy was a good soldier. Let me at least find out how he got into this mess. FINCH: Okay, but don't let personal feelings warp your judgment. No one forced him to go robbing banks. REESE: Hang on. He's meeting someone. He's giving her something. Looks like money. A lot of money. [CAMERA CLICKS] [WHISTLES] So, who's the other woman? I don't know her name yet. FINCH: Bank robber and a cheat. Unlikely to have a happy ending. - Think he's targeting one of the women? REESE: Could be. Only way I'm gonna find out is to get closer to Joey, and that won't be easy. These guys are organized and ultra-cautious. No unnecessary contact. JOEY: Thanks. REESE: Hang on. [CAMERA SHUTTER CLICKS] That cabbie was at the bank. Just made their courier. Finch, run a check on cab medallion number 5-Victor-80. Driver's name is Willis, also an ex-soldier in the 107th Infantry same unit as Joey. And also a bank robber. I hacked the taxi company website. Before he dropped the cash off Willis stopped at a bar on Coney Island called the Green Zone. Bar is owned by former Master Sergeant Sam Latimer veteran of the first Gulf War. I think you just found the gang's ringleader. I want to get close to Latimer, and I'll need a cover story. I'll get on that. And I need you to create a vacancy for me with the gang. I'll get on that too. Anything else? No, that'll do for now. [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] [ROCK MUSIC PLAYING OVER SPEAKERS] You Sam Latimer? Name's Tony Miller. Marine buddy down in San Diego told me a while back if I was in New York, I should look you up. - What's your buddy's name? - Hector Munoz. Munoz. Yeah, I remember him from Mogadishu. How's he doing? Not good. Ran over an IED in Helmand. Lasted a week before he hit room temperature. Rest in peace. Tough son of a bitch. So, what kind of work are you looking for? Security? I'm not looking for wages. - I'm only interested in lump sums. - You in trouble? - That's my business. - You're making it mine. I was working freelance in Tijuana. Job went south. People's feelings got hurt. I need to put some distance between me and them. I've got some experience you could use. Skills. What kind of skills? You have a.45, a shotgun next to the register and I can get to them both before you. So if you're such a hotshot, what do you need me for? I prefer to work with people who know the area. I heard you're good at what you do. You make a lot of money. You're still alive. Because I prefer not to work with a man whose only reference is a dead Marine. [CHUCKLES] Well There's no job openings at the moment, but I'll call around. Thanks. - You won't regret it. - I know. FINCH: Here you are. Keep the change. Let me get my case out of the trunk. [SIRENS WAILING NEARBY] OFFICER: Yellow-cab driver, get out of your vehicle. Get out of your vehicle now. We got weapons here. Shotguns, submachine guns. I don't know anything about those. Those are not mine. [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] You Carter? - Yeah. - Molina. Robbery. I hear you're chasing after some Special Forces guy. Yeah, what is it to you? Come here. I may have something for you. His prints showed up on a bank job yesterday. At a bank job? Yeah, four guys knocked over a bank on Houston. See that guard there? Tries to be a hero. Someone stops him from getting his head blown off. - Hmm. - When CSU did elimination prints they printed the guard's holster. - It was your mystery man. - Well, did they stop him? He slipped away before the units got there. Of course. See the way these guys are moving? Yeah, and I'm pretty sure that's a mil-spec radio. They're soldiers. So your Special Forces guy fits right in. He could be their inside man. Mind if I keep this? REESE: Looks like your taxi ride paid off, Finch. Latimer just called me. He wants me to meet the team tonight. [BLUES MUSIC PLAYING OVER SPEAKERS] [PATRONS CHATTERING] JOEY: Come on, move, move. REESE: Unh! JOEY: What we got, Straub? ID checks out. Pay-as-you-go cell phone bought two days ago. Ran the calls, mainly takeout couple to some jarheads in San Diego, last call is from Latimer. [GUN COCKS] Unh, what the hell is this about? I thought Latimer wanted you to meet me. He told us to put a bullet in your head if we didn't like you and now we don't. [REESE SIGHS] I'm just an ex-soldier that needs some money fast. You don't trust me, fine but the 107 trusted me back in '05, in Tikrit, and I trusted them. How the hell do you know our unit? Big fella's got it tattooed all over his arm. You don't call us. We call you. When we do, you lose that phone. [CAR DOORS OPENS THEN CLOSES] [ENGINE STARTS] REESE: Killing in battle, in combat, is one thing. Killing someone up close someone who can't fight back that takes a different sort of killer. And Joey's not one of them. FINCH: So you think Joey's the target. Then who's gunning for him? One of the gang? One of the women? Do we even know why he's such a mess? He's got a job, girlfriend, good service record. He's throwing it all away. He's gonna end up in prison, or dead. You're right but not every ex-soldier meets a reclusive billionaire. Okay. But if Joey's bad choices mean he's about to walk into a bullet we have to find out who's firing it. JOEY: Excuse me PIA: Hey. I'm looking for my girlfriend. - What are you doing here? JOEY: Just want to say hello. PIA: You're gonna get me in trouble. Good tips today? [PIA CHUCKLES] PIA: Not bad. Julie's out sick so I got her tables. - It's been busy. JOEY: You better get back to your shift. [JOEY CLEARS THROAT] PIA: Okay. Oh, before you go. Realtor says she can show me apartments tonight. I'd really like if you could see them. Things are kind of difficult at work right now. I know, baby, but this is important too. I just want us to do stuff together again. Like have fun, remember that? I'm trying, P. I really am. [PIA SIGHS] JESSICA: John I didn't know you were back from over there. Where's your uniform? Uh, I got a new job. One of those jobs you can't talk about? [CHUCKLES] Oh, yeah, I got engaged. I'm moving back east next month. His name's Peter. Peter. He's a lucky guy. I waited for you. - I didn't ask you to. - No. No, you didn't. You just left. Because you thought you'd get killed over there and that that would hurt me. But I think the truth is that it was easier for you to be alone. That's one of the things you learn over there. In the end, we're all alone and no one's coming to save you. Be happy with Peter. [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] CARTER: Oh, Molina I wanna learn more about this gang. They've pulled about a dozen robberies. They hit banks, jewelry stores, money exchanges, casinos. It's always four armed men. They haven't killed, haven't hurt anyone. In and out in 60 seconds, every time. - Dozen robberies. - Oh, yeah. A gang like this, they usually implode after four or five. You know, they start dropping money, have a falling-out. - Not these guys. - Maybe this'll help. It's a 148 radio, painted black aerial cut down to look like a phone. It uses frequency-hopping spread spectrum which means zero chance of interception. And you know this how? I used them in Iraq and Afghanistan. - Where do I get one of these? - You can't. You'd have to steal them from the military. I checked with every base on the East Coast. Fort Drum reported the theft of a radio package six months ago. - Do they got any idea who stole them? - Army CID investigated, no joy. I'll tell you what you can do. Cross-check guys resident in New York who left the service out of Fort Drum. I mean, 12 robberies, you must have some physical descriptions. STACEY: How was school? Come on. Heh, thanks. Hi, sweetie. Hey, Finch, I'm sending you a photo. [CAMERA CLICKS] Looks like Joey's other woman has got a little girl. FINCH: You think she's Joey's? REESE: Sure looks like that. You should find the name if Sunny Days Kindergarten's firewalls aren't too tough for you. [CHUCKLES] FINCH: And why don't you arrange a little face time with Joey, Mr. Reese? [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] I thought you said no contact. What are you doing? Following me? I live here, pal. What's your excuse? I'm staying in a fleapit on Colby. This one's on me, but I'm, uh, running a little low on funds. - How long before we get some action? - It's up to Latimer. - We just follow orders. - Orders. Don't you ever get sick of them? Maybe, but they make life simple. You're told to go down that road, you go down. Yeah, you're told to go into that bank, you go into that bank, right? [BOTH CHUCKLE] I don't know, man. Six years, all I thought about, dreamed about, was coming home. Finally I come home and there's nothing. There's no money, no jobs. Bankers gone and lost it all, robbed the country blind. I mean, it's like what the hell are we fighting for, you know? - Joke's on us. MAN 1: Hey. - You guys were soldiers, right? MAN 2: What, Iraq, Afghanistan? - That's some serious stuff. - Yeah, but you volunteered. Nobody asked you to go. It's not like the country owes you. - We got it, pal. - No, you don't got it. Talking about bankers like you know anything. - It's not been easy for us either. - I'm real sorry about that. - But we're talking here. - Hey, so are we. Guys like you gotta adapt. It's the knowledge economy now. Time to use this, my friend. Okay. - Hey! MAN 1: Ugh! JOEY: Come on, come on. Let's go. [MAN 1 GROANING] What made you start on the banks? Realized the job that I had wasn't gonna allow me to do the things that I wanted. I had a debt to pay. - Money? - More like an obligation. - Hmm. You got kids? - No. - Why do you say that? - I was just asking. What about the rest of the guys? They got debts too? Straub does. Gambling. Is that why Straub's so jumpy? You'd be jumpy too, you got blown up twice. Listen, man, I gotta get to work. Wait for the call. Any luck ID'ing that woman? FINCH [OVER PHONE]: Kindergarten records say the girl is Amy Myles daughter of Stacey Myles. Father's name not given. I'm checking hospital records. What about you? I'm gonna check on someone else. A guy named Straub. LATIMER: Strauby, what gives? - We made you nearly 80 grand, last job. I got 5. It's not enough. You know how it is, I had to clean the money. That's a big discount. You guys made 20 grand. I made less than that. They're gonna take away my mom's apartment. - The papers, it gives them the right. - Stay away from the sharks. Well, I didn't have much choice then, did I? I need more money. Listen, I got a job for you tonight. If you do this right, there's a big score coming down, 400 grand. You're kidding. Big client. Big job. Two hundred for me and 200 for you. Yeah, 200 divided four ways. Come here. Come on. My friend, how you divvy up is your business. With this job you can pay off all your debt. Join Manny and Danny in the land of tequila and grateful senoritas. You remember Danny Platt, Manny Santos? Worked hard, did what they were told, now they're enjoying their retirement. Say we don't make it out of one of these jobs. Say we take casualties. Still the same split, right? Fifty-fifty with you? Sure. But you guys are gonna make it out. You're a unit. A team. MOLINA: Hey, Carter. I followed up on your radio lead. Teddy Dalloway, 6'2", 220 pounds. Discharged from the Army five months ago. Big guy, but that's not what gave him away. CARTER: He's left-handed. - Yep. We got a GPS lock on his phone. See if he leads us to the gang. Uh, look, if, uh, Teddy makes a move, you call me. I don't care what time. REESE [OVER PHONE]: Hey, Finch, just got the call. Gang's picking me up. Get told the target en route. You're not going in with them. REESE: Gotta watch Joey's back. Don't trust his friend Straub one bit. I did not understand "infiltrate the gang" to mean join them in their robberies. REESE: No choice. I'll keep the line open. Monitor the police band for me. STRAUB: Here. - Why the artillery? - Target's a mob gambling joint. People inside guaranteed to be packing. ETA, 60 seconds. Phones off, batteries out, radio comms only. Hey. Tracked Teddy Dalloway's GPS. Left Brooklyn 20 minutes ago in some vehicle. - He did three pickups. - It's the gang. - Know where they're heading? - Around here. [PEOPLE SCREAM] JOEY: Back against the wall. Put the money down! - Back against the wall! - Back, back, back! MOLINA: I'm gonna call backup. - Do that. STRAUB: Don't touch that! JOEY: Back against the wall! Up against the wall! Go lie down! Down, down! Reese, N.Y.P.D. Dispatch just received a backup call for that address. John? N.Y.P.D. Is en route. Do you hear me? REESE: We gotta move out! Cops are coming. JOEY: How the hell do you know? REESE: Police band. They have our address. JOEY: We gotta move. STRAUB: I'm not going. JOEY: Leave the money, we gotta move! STRAUB: No way. JOEY: That's it! Move now! [PEOPLE SCREAM] JOEY: Let's go, let's go. Move it. Everyone over. REESE: Move across. STRAUB: I don't hear any damn cops! We left like 100 grand! JOEY: Hear them now? Damn lucky for us he was listening in. REESE: Come on, let's go. This way. JOEY: Let's move. [INDISTINCT CHATTERING] MOLINA: Nobody move! [SIGHS] STRAUB: Hardly got in there before the cops were on us. Joey and the new guy said to leave the money. How thoughtful of them. You guys let me down, Straub. I'll make it up to you. Give us another chance. LATIMER: Okay, one more. The big one. STRAUB: Can you tell me what it is? LATIMER: In good time. And keep an eye on the new guy. You might need him going in. Not sure you'll need him coming out. How can we wrap this up? It can't go on. - Somebody's gonna get killed. - Let me talk to Joey first. To what end? I want to find out what his guilt trip is. Try to cure him of it. Might be more complicated than you think. I got into Joey's bank accounts. Last four months he's paid nearly $10,000 into a 529 savings plan for the little girl, Amy Myles. It'll pay for her to go to college. - Amy has to be Joey's kid. - But she's not. Hospital records show that her daddy was called Frank Stephens. Was? Killed in Afghanistan. He was a soldier in the 107th. Same unit as Joey. JOEY: We're gonna meet in five hours. It's a new job. You're gonna risk it all again? You know Straub's going off the rails. Uh, yeah, that's why I gotta have his back. He needs the money. Well, Straub might. But you don't. Yeah, I do. That's right your obligation. What is that? You leave someone behind? Who was it, Joey? A friend. Took my place on patrol. Got killed. Why'd he take your place? JOEY: LT puts me on honor guard for this visiting politician. So I'm scrubbing my boots, and Frank That's his name. Frank goes out. His wife had just had a baby, this little girl called Amy. Heh, man, he was so happy. He said nothing could hurt him. IED rips him to pieces in the seat I should've been sitting in. So that's your debt. Yeah. He used to show me her picture, you know? He was gonna lay the world at her feet, man. He was gonna give her money for college. And he would've done that too. He would've done it. And that's what you're gonna do. You tell anyone else? No, not even my girlfriend. So you're still fighting the war. She's still waiting. When this is done I'm with her completely. Be with her now. Don't do the job. My friend got killed. I gotta take care of his kid. It's Pia, right? Yeah. - You're even prettier than Joey said. - You're a friend of Joey's? Army. Just in New York for a few days. He's crazy about you, you know that? His friends know more about what he's feeling than I do. Ah, you know Joey, he's a bit of a closed book. You're telling me. I'm starting to wonder if he's ever gonna let me in. Waited six years for him to come home and it's like he's still over there. Sorry. Shouldn't go crying all over the customers, heh. No, no, no. It's all right. Look, you're a beautiful woman. If Joey doesn't come to his senses, there's plenty more fish in the sea. No, I'm stuck with him. Loved him since I was so high. It's the way it is. FINCH [OVER PHONE]: Are you there, Mr. Reese? Get anywhere with your friend Joey? REESE: No. Can't cure someone of guilt. Soon as I find out what the next job is, go ahead and call the cops. - They can pull the whole gang in. - You did what you could. Yep. CARTER: I got something for you. Ex-soldiers Manny Santos, Danny Platt. Both murdered. Shot in the head. Three months ago. What made you look at it? I cross-checked CSU reports for the last six months military hardware items. And look what came up. One forty-eight radio. Serial number still legible. One of the radios stolen from Fort Drum. It means Santos and Platt were robbers too. It explains why your gang keeps going, why they don't fall out. Once they've done four or five jobs, someone bumps them off. - Recruits some new suckers. - Yeah, but who? LATIMER: They have the target, sir. Long-term-evidence lockup under Centre Street. Uh, they have the cage number precise orders to recover the item. Security's light, four semi-retired cops. Bad news, it's right on Centre Street, crawling with cops and feds. - What are we stealing? - One item only, easily concealed. Even you Boy Scouts won't make me leave it. JOEY: Bonds, jewelry? STRAUB: Don't know, don't care. But it's worth 400 grand. Phew. MAN [OVER PHONE]: What about exit strategy? Uh, that's in hand, sir. MAN: Boss says no loose ends. Understood? LATIMER: Understood. Team was cracking up anyway. It's time to refresh. Latimer gave us clean weapons. I want cell phones, pagers, in here. Come on. [LINE DIALING] Yeah, even your sneaky little earwig. Hey, it's not a problem, is it? [COMPUTER BEEPING] [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] [DOOR BUZZES] STRAUB: Get up, get up! Right now, get up! Hands behind your back. Move, move, move. TEDDY: Move. I called from Marmostein Ribner. Some probate issues on the Ulman estate. OFFICER: Have you got a case number? JOEY: Hands in the air! This is a robbery! Get out here! - Down! - Move! STRAUB: Move it, you too. Go. Move! Move! Move! Get down! Down! JOEY: Watch the entrance. Watch the door. STRAUB: Eight, two, five, seven JOEY: Six. STRAUB: Five, seven, five. You, stop staring at me. Leave him. Not a problem. I said stop looking at me. Latimer set you up. It's a trap. Sit down. Wait here. STRAUB: Seven. Five, seven, five. - Seven, seven, three. This is it. JOEY: Pull it. Pull it. Pull it. REESE: Latimer screwed us. We gotta get out of here. STRAUB: Don't you pull that crap again. Got it! Eight, seven, three, three, six. REESE: Now move. This is a trap. STRAUB: How do you know? Maybe you're the trap. Point that thing at me again and I'll shoot you with it. Let's move. JOEY: We got it. Let's move. Let's go. [TEDDY YELLS] REESE: Keep moving, Teddy, I've got you. Carter. Shooting at Centre Street evidence locker. - Who called it in? - Street cleaner saw four guys. Five minutes later, shooting started. Same four guys came out. JOEY: Nearly there, Teddy. Come on, man. TEDDY: Ugh. REESE: Take him to the van. I'll cover you. TEDDY: Argh! JOEY: Come on, there you go. Did you get it? [TEDDY GRUNTING] You're a good soldier, Strauby. STRAUB: Run! [TEDDY GRUNTS] JOEY: Damn weapon won't fire, ugh. Why didn't my weapon fire? Latimer must've ground down the firing pins. Come on, let's go. [SIRENS WAILING] The lockup is secured. Soon as the police ID Straub or Teddy, they'll be onto you. You've gotta get out of the city. Go south or west. Here's a couple of grand to keep you going. With your skills, you'll find work, but go now and don't look back. I can't. I can't, man. I have someone here. You stay here and you'll be looking at her from behind bars for 20 years. Call her and ask her to go with you. She loves you, Joey. Just tell her it's gonna be you and her now. Just you and her. CARTER [OVER RADIO]: Can you hear me? I think you can. Guess you're out there, hiding in plain sight. I keep looking for you, and I keep finding myself in some bad situations. You could always stop looking for me. Not an option. Now I've got two more bodies. I don't think you killed those guys. But I think you know who did. I'll take care of it. Playing a dangerous game. And I'm not sure I understand why. I've got my reasons. CARTER: Maybe you do. Every killer I locked up thought they had a good reason. And that is how this ends. Sooner or later I lock you up. Or find you bleeding out somewhere. I will take my chances. I think I've told you everything that I can remember. OFFICER: Detective. Over here. This is all they took. So you let our bank robber get away. REESE: He paid his dues. Deserved a second chance. - Then are we done? REESE: Not quite. I hope that's what you wanted. So we better talk money. [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] REESE: Someone got here first. He's dead. Any idea who did it? REESE: The name on the evidence box was Elias. - That mean anything to you? - No. I'd better look into it. Hey. JESSICA: The truth is that it was easier for you to be alone. That's one of the things you learn over there. In the end we're all alone and no one's coming to save you. Be happy with Peter. You don't believe that. Not really. You wanna be brave? Take a risk. Tell me to wait for you and Say those words, and I will. That would take real courage, wouldn't it? Wait for me. Please.
FINCH: You are being watched. The government has a secret system. A machine that spies on you every hour of every day. I know because I built it. I designed the machine to detect acts of terror, but it sees everything. Violent crimes involving ordinary people. People like you. Crimes the government considered irrelevant. They wouldn't act, so I decided I would. But I needed a partner. Someone with the skills to intervene. Hunted by the authorities, we work in secret. You will never find us. But victim or perpetrator, if your number's up, we'll find you. GABRIELLE: Every time I close my eyes, I see him. He won't stop. Maybe I'm already dead. [SIREN WAILING] - Surgical 3, down that hall on the left. - Yes, all right. TILLMAN: Thank you. Mr. Davidson in 8 needs a CVC, an EKG and a portable chest x-ray. The kid in 5 needs stitches, INTERN: Uh, what about the guy in 4? He's, uh, been waiting for three hours. TILLMAN: Thank you. - Hi. TILLMAN: Hi. Rather busy today. I was hoping to avoid this. [PAGER BEEPS] Sorry about the wait. - I'm Dr. Tillman. Hi. - How do you do? I see that you are experiencing some back pain. My doctor's playing golf in the Caymans. I just need a refill on my pain medication. On a scale of one to five, how bad's your pain? On a good day, three. Today's not a good day. Squeeze my hands. All right. Well, judging from your bone grafts looks like you had spinal fusion surgery about a year or two ago? - Yeah. You know, if your pain's chronic, there are other treatments. How were you injured? It's a long story, heh. [FINCH GRUNTS] Please, I was hoping you might be able to just give me a prescription. You really should have a full work up. CT. MRI. But you are the most polite patient I've seen all week so I will make an exception. Okay, this is for three days. If you're still in pain, you have to come back. That's quite all right, Dr. Tillman. I have everything I need. [PAGER BEEPS] Duty calls. - Take care. - Thanks. REESE: Machine spit out a new number? FINCH [OVER PHONE]: Megan Tillman. Graduated Columbia Medical School. Top of her class. Hasn't missed a day of work since her residency began. Hey, Doug, I'm gonna grab some lunch. Page if you need me. FINCH: She puts in 80 hours a week at the hospital. Single. Lives alone. TILLMAN: Hi. Burger and fries, please. Thank you. - Oh, Sorry. - Not at all. [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] REESE: Anybody at the hospital have a problem with the doctor? FINCH: No complaints. No malpractice lawsuits. Seems friendly, well-liked. REESE: So we've got no idea why the machine singled her out. Come on, grab a drink with us. Even workaholics need a night off. Workaholics need rest. - I'm going home and hitting the hay. - Okay. FINCH: In other words? REESE: We'll have to watch her round the clock to figure out what kind of trouble she's in. FINCH: If you'd like a raise, Mr. Reese, all you have to do is ask. - Doctor has a 6 a.m. Shift, right? - Yes, why? Looks like she's changed her mind about going out. [DANCE MUSIC PLAYING OVER RECORDING] [PEOPLE LAUGHING AND CHATTERING] MAN: Girl like you shouldn't be sitting here all alone. Guy like you should watch where he puts his hands. - Hold on, Finch. - Come on, ha, ha. REESE: I got a guy with a gun. MAN: Hey, baby. Hey! No. God. God. Please. Please, not my face. Please. Please. Everything all right? - What happened? - Had to make a pit stop. Wait. Mr. Wall-Street. Second time I've seen this guy today. You sure? REESE: He bumped into Tillman at the food truck. See if I can repay the favor. [GRUNTS] BARFLY: Dude, sorry. - Watch it, man. Guy's name is Andrew Benton. He's carrying benzodiazepine. Roofies. Date-rape drug. I think we just found the threat, Finch. We're not the only ones following Dr. Tillman. Doctor left the club alone around 3:30. FINCH: Well she showed up at the hospital before sunrise. Treated a twisted ankle, a heart attack and a cut on a hand. She hasn't stopped once except to get coffee. - She's dedicated. - And not just to her job. Asked a bartender, she's been at the club almost every night of the week. A double life? A dangerous one. She's attracted some unwanted attention. FINCH: Full name is Andrew William Benton. He's an investment banker at Hudson Liberty Financial. REESE: Does Benton have a record? FINCH: Technically, no. But there are a string of accusations against him. Stalking, harassment, sexual assault. As far as I can tell, he's never been charged. REESE: Guy fits the profile of a sexual predator. And I think he's picked out Tillman as his next victim. I'm in. Anything out of the ordinary? Guy likes to mark his own territory. No coffee maker. Hmm. Benton's into something stronger. [COMPUTER BEEPS] Just got his e-mail, personal files. We'll see what else this guy's into. [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] What is that, uh, surveillance from the Center Street robbery? - Your ex-CIA guy? Is he in it? - Heh, he's the star. KANE: The guy in the ski mask? How do you know it's him? I just do. But look at this. - See that? KANE: Yeah. CARTER: They had an exchange. KANE: Exchange? CARTER: Watch. Right there. He says something to the little guy. And look, little guy says something back. Right there. KANE: Did you get his name? His address? Yeah, he's a paralegal from Marmostein Ribner. Name's Burdett. You think this Burdett heard something? Might lead you to your guy. REESE: Who are these women? - Benton's conquests? FINCH: Mm-hm. - Any of them Megan Tillman? - No. He hasn't researched her online. He hasn't looked up the area of her apartment or the hospital. There's nothing to connect him to our doctor. REESE: He's careful. Methodical. Maybe he wasn't always so careful. I've been combing through his history. Mr. Benton has an old college record that's been expunged. Might illuminate what kind of a man we're dealing with, but We need access. And I know someone who can help. I'm not all that comfortable with your arrangement with Detective Fusco. - He's an asset. - He's a corrupt police officer that tried to murder you. - He's not the first person who's tried. Fusco will stay in line. Your detective is a nice pet to keep, Mr. Reese. But sooner or later he'll bite you back. [FUSCO LAUGHING] What's the matter? Can't keep up with your old man, huh? I got it. DIAZ: Excuse me. Detective Fusco? Who are you guys supposed to be? We're supposed to be drug dealers. Except a group of very foolish cops stole most of our product. You got me confused. - Detective Stills is the guy you want. - Stills is missing. The rest of your friends are in jail. That leaves you on the hook for a million dollars worth of cocaine. We want our money. Let me go to the ATM, make a withdrawal. [DIAZ CHUCKLES] LEE: Dad. Come on. Let's play. FUSCO: Just a minute, buddy. Our children, they, uh They see too much violence. You have a good head on your shoulders. Bring us the money in two days and you get to come home to your son with it still attached. Win-win. Doctor's been parked at the bar all night. So far, no sign of Benton. She puts in 16-hour days at the hospital, stays out all night. Why? What's driving her? Uh, Finch, hold on a second. Man of the hour just showed up. BENTON: Just a martini, up. Long day. Stressful job. Finally off the clock. You just want some peace. But some clueless idiot keeps bothering you. Girl alone at a bar. What do you expect? Oh, I wasn't talking about you. In case you haven't noticed, I'm beating them off with a stick here. [CHUCKLES] Is that so? Whatever you do, do not offer to buy me another drink. Well, I'm Kate. Andrew, it's nice to meet you. REESE: Why is she using a false name? TILLMAN: Well, I was just about to go get some fresh air. Yeah, you know what? Do you mind if I join you? BENTON: Where you headed? TILLMAN: I don't know. You're the club guy, you tell me. BENTON: It's 3 a.m. Town's pretty much closing down. I do know a place right around the corner. Full bar. Comfy bed. Oh, your place. - Oh, do you wanna go to my place? - Ha, ha. Sure. Come on, we'll do whatever you want. We'll hang out, have some drinks. Maybe something stronger. [TILLMAN CHUCKLES] I have to work early in the morning. But maybe next time. You know where to find me. Wait a minute. FINCH [OVER PHONE]: What's she doing? REESE: I'm not sure, but she's up to something. Finch. Benton's not stalking the doctor. She's stalking him. GABRIELLE [OVER PHONE]: It's me. I know it's late. It was my fault. I know that now. I tried to put it out of my head, but I can't. FUSCO: Ah. - Easy there, Lionel. Last time you pointed a gun at me, it didn't end in your favor, now did it? You shouldn't sneak up like that with the thugs from the Toreros Cartel after me. Toreros. From Sinaloa? I spent a little time in Mexico. FUSCO: You know that they're a death squad. Cross them, your head winds up in a bag. But you've already crossed them. Andrew Benton's expunged record. Do you have it? Even an added a bonus. I got the ME report. Wonderful. Hmm. I do things for you. You want me to keep doing them, you gotta protect me. - You gotta take these guys out. - So I'm working for you now? It's either them or me. Lots of crooked cops in this town, Lionel. Not gonna be hard to find another one just as useful as you. With less baggage. The report, please. I did say please. That's the spirit. [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] REESE: Finch, I know why the doctor's stalking Benton. In '96, when Benton was a senior at NYU he sexually assaulted a freshman girl at a fraternity rush party. Uh, she said in her statement that she wanted to impress him. He was popular, a star athlete. So she had a couple beers with him. Claimed he slipped something in her drink. Why wasn't he arrested? She waited two days to report the assault. Probably ashamed, scared. Tox reports came back clean. Rape kit was inconclusive. She dropped the charges. Who was the girl? Gabrielle Tillman. The doctor's sister. A year after the attack, Gabrielle was rushed to the ER and pronounced DOA from an overdose of antidepressants and sleeping pills. This isn't an accidental overdose. This is She committed suicide. And that's why the machine gave us Tillman's number. She's going to murder Benton. The man responsible for her sister's death. Correct. And she's a doctor who saves lives. She doesn't know what it's like to take one. It'll destroy her. Mr. Burdett? Detective Carter. I called regarding the robbery you witnessed. Uh, can I come in? I've been expecting you. Sorry about the mess. Paralegal, right? At lockup looking into a case? Probate court failed to require a fidelity bond of the executor. The executor, in his turn, robbed the Ulman estate blind. - Please, sit. - Oh, thank you. Were you injured during the robbery? Don't worry, I'm not going to sue the city. This is an old injury. Although the stress of the situation did not help. We're doing everything in our power to catch these guys. Mr. Burdett, do you mind walking me through what happened? I was standing at the counter at lockup. They came storming in. They had guns. They were shouting at us to get down on the floor, so I did. During the robbery, did you hear any of the men say the name Elias? I don't believe so. Who's Elias? Did you get a look at any of their faces? No. Did any of the men talk to you? Not that I recall. Because it looks to me like this man said something to you. Uh, I was hoping I wouldn't have to go through all of this again. Yes. He told me to stop staring at him. That's interesting. Most people's instinct is to look away. I've never been accused of being like most people. - Did he say anything else to you? - No. You try to communicate with him in any other way? - How do you mean? - When he was holding you by the jacket. I asked him to let me go. And that's all you said? Detective, I suppose that you're used to being around guns. I suppose scenes of violence are commonplace for you. But I can assure you that for me it was terrifying. I was so terrified I couldn't even look away. So when he picked me up, I thought surely I was about to die. So, yes, I was communicating with him. I was begging for my life. I'm sorry I can't remember the exact words I used. Well If you can think of anything else, please give me a call. I promise you. We will catch this guy. [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] [PHONE RINGS] FINCH [OVER PHONE]: Where's Tillman, Mr. Reese? She's working. I'm taking care of a little side project. - What's got you worried, Harold? FINCH: Detective Carter. I met with her about the robbery. I had to know what she knows. She's motivated. Some might say fixated. [CAMERA CLICKS] It won't be long before she catches up to you. Have to have a plan when she does. I'm taking care of it. Making a new friend on the police force. He's going to help us with our problem with Carter and Fusco. Tillman's off in 20 minutes. Gotta go. VICKY: After the bar, we went back to his place. He slipped something in my drink. I blacked out. [SOBBING] When I woke up, I was in his bed. Face down. Naked. I couldn't find my dress. I wanted to scream to call the cops, someone, anyone. But I was afraid. I was crying when I left. He just smiled and said I was a real wild woman and he would see me at work. Now, every day I see him and he smiles that same smile and I wanna throw up. I need this job. I can't quit. I never talk at these things either. - Excuse me? - Oh, I'm sorry. I didn't mean to interrupt. I just wanted some coffee. Sorry. Don't be. It's my third cup today. I keep coming hoping I'll feel better but they only make me feel worse. At least the coffee's terrible. Uh, that woman in there, you know her? No, but, uh but I know someone like her. - What about you? - Hmm? Why are you here? I lost someone very close to me. I'm sorry. Not a day goes by I don't think about what I could've done. Yeah. Heh. [SIGHS] It took me years to piece together what happened to my friend. You know, I thought I could live with it. I'd put it behind me. Had a good job, good life. And then I saw him a month ago. And it all came back. He was eating dinner at this little French place in my neighborhood. He was out on a date. He looked content. My world is shattered and he looks content. [CLEARS THROAT] Heh, sorry, I don't know why I'm telling you this. Hey, everybody needs someone to talk to. I'm John. I'm Kate. Kate Leman. Photos are some kind of sick trophies of his victims. Benton convinces these women to do coke with him slips them a sedative and rapes them. In the morning, they're too afraid to come forward and implicate themselves. I suppose that explains why the charges against him are consistently dropped. REESE: Guy's depraved. Gets off on violating and humiliating all these women. He's not gonna stop, Finch. Get a hit on that name the doctor gave? FINCH [OVER PHONE]: We got three hits on Kate Leman. The same pseudonym she gave to Benton. The first is an 80-year-old woman living in the Bronx. The second's living upstate at a women's corrections facility. The third has a P.O. Box a block from Tillman's hospital. She recently signed rental agreements for a van and vacation home in Montauk. [CELL PHONE RINGS] You find the house? And then some. Doctor has everything she needs to erase Benton for good. - What do you mean, erase? - Eight pounds of lye. Heated to 300 degrees, body will dissolve in three hours, give or take. I will refrain from asking how you know that. Oh, Finch, she's meticulous. Planned everything to a tee. She's gonna get away with it. I'm beginning to wonder if maybe she's not doing the world a favor. REESE: But Tillman isn't a killer. She goes through with it, it'll ruin her life. What do you suggest, Mr. Reese? We don't give her the chance. I'm going to find a way to make Benton disappear. [SIGHS] Decided to help me. I'm not so easy to replace, huh? I warn you, these cartel guys'll put two in your back. Don't leave any of them standing. You need me here? Should I go around back, cover the exits? No. You're good right here. [BANGING ON DOOR] Detective. You got our money? [DIAZ SPEAKS IN SPANISH] [SPORTS ANNOUNCER YELLING ON TV] You're supposed to take them out. Hey, what are you doing? You're stealing from them? If it makes you feel better, it's for a good cause. REESE: Sir. Pardon me. What's the problem? No problem. [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] [HORN HONKING] Sir, can you hear me? BENTON: I'm telling you, this has been the craziest week. Drinks are on me. He's being released, why? Guy's got four lawyers. Each got a suit costs more than I make in six months. Kind who know every loophole garbage like Benton can crawl through. What about the Toreros? They're gonna come for me and their coke. Well, better make sure they don't find you, Lionel. You know what kind of hole you got me into? What's stopping me from making noise, getting you arrested? I don't know. What's stopping you? GABRIELLE [ON RECORDING]: It's me. I know it's late. It was my fault, I know that now. I've tried to put it out of my head, but I can't. I'm sorry, Meg. I should've been a better sister. Please, just forget I called. Forget all of this. [MACHINE BEEPS] Reese, Dr. Tillman's on the move. REESE [OVER PHONE]: She was in the middle of a shift. She was. She went to take a nap and told the nurse not to wake her. - She's moving away from the hospital. REESE: I'm on it. FINCH: Whatever you do, do it quick. She's headed toward Benton's loft. All right, got it. [REESE SIGHS] Can we do this later, fellas? I'm a little busy. BENTON: What the hell? [TASER CRACKLES] The doctor's been at Benton's loft for five minutes. Where the hell are you? Oh. Nice to see you again, Lionel. Detective Fusco owes us a debt. So he made a little down payment. You. It's a win-win. [DIAZ GRUNTS] Where's our cocaine? [REESE SIGHS] I know you. Then you know if you cross the Torero Cartel, you lose your head. - I'm sorry. - It's too late to apologize, amigo. [GROANS] I'm sorry, but you're gonna lose your head. [IN SPANISH] - Is this true? DIAZ: Shut up. HEAVY: How's he know about Miguel? - Shut up. He's lying. REESE [IN SPANISH]: It was nothing personal. I had no choice. They were gonna kill me. REESE: I told you you're not the only dirty cop in town. I called in a favor. It's time for a change of scenery. You're gonna be doing something else for me. And Lionel? Don't do this again. [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] Officer. Uh, twenty on two, please. CASHIER: Sure. - Thanks. REESE: I thought that was you. Remember me? Oh, the guy from the support group. Yeah. - Well, I gotta go. - Let me buy you a cup of coffee, Megan. Come on, I hear it's terrible. The guy you got tied up in the back of the van can wait. You're smart. And you've been careful. You probably wouldn't get caught. But the truth is you'll never really get away with it. Do you know who he is? What he's done? I know all about Andrew Benton. I know all about you, Megan. I know you're a damn good doctor. I know that you've spent years of your life healing people. And I know if you do this if you murder this man in cold blood it will kill you. You told me that you lost someone. Was that true? How can you sit there and tell me not to do something you know in your heart you would do too? Because, unlike you, I know what happens when you take a life. You lose a part of yourself. Not everything. Just the part that matters the most. Is that what happened to you? You don't have to do this. You can turn around right now. Mm-mm, he's seen me. He's seen my face. Well, suppose I have a little talk with him. Trust me. It won't matter. Give me the keys to your van, Megan. Everything he's done and I'm supposed to just hand you over the keys? He gets to walk free? What do I get? You get a second chance. You get to let go. You get your life back. What does Gabrielle get? She gets to keep her memory of you. I don't get it. Who are you? Why are you here? I already told you. Everybody needs someone to talk to. [SIGHS] Thank you. Reese, where's Dr. Tillman? REESE [OVER PHONE]: She's fine. I have her van. And Benton. What are you gonna do with him? We're gonna have a little talk. Why do you do it, Finch? The machine, the numbers, all of it? I told you, Mr. Reese. I have my reasons. And our little problem with Detective Carter? Taken care of. [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] Detective. - Captain, it's a real pleasure. - Save it. I was told to assign you to this desk and not ask questions. So this is me not asking questions. This is you calling your friend, telling him to lose the photos he's got of me. But if you mess up I don't care who's watching for you, I will personally see that your ass fries. Have a great day, detective. - Cute kid. FUSCO: Thanks. - Is that the Center Street lockup robbery? - Mm. That was something. Any leads? A few. - You just transfer? - Yeah. - Detective Fusco. - Carter. - Looks like you're stuck with me. - Heh. Where am I? That woman in my loft, she tazed me. Don't worry, I told her to leave. She isn't cut out for this. She fixes people. Not like us. We break them. I don't understand, um, who are you? What are you going to do to me? Honestly, I haven't decided yet. I'm gonna ask you a question. Do you think people ever really change? I mean, you hurt innocent people. And I Well, for a long time I killed people like you. Please, I'm not who you think I am. This is a mistake. Wait. Uh, okay. I've done some things, um I've crossed some lines. But I won't do it again. I I swear. Please let me go. REESE: I could let you go. Because you'd know for the rest of your life that I'd be watching you. And if you hurt anybody, I'd stop you. Maybe you could change. And maybe so could I. But the truth is people don't really change, do they? No, they, uh, can. I can. And, um, you I I don't think that you're going to kill me. - No? - No, because I can see inside that you're a good person. - You're a good man. - Good? Heh. I lost that part of myself a long time ago. Not sure if I can find it. Not sure it matters anymore. Maybe it's better this way. Maybe it's up to me to do what the good people can't. Maybe there are no good people. Maybe there are only good decisions. Please. [STAMMERS] You don't wanna do something you're gonna regret. Which do you think I'll regret more? Letting you live or letting you die? Andrew. Help me make a good decision.
FINCH: You are being watched. The government has a secret system. A machine that spies on you every hour of every day. I know because I built it. I designed the machine to detect acts of terror, but it sees everything. Violent crimes involving ordinary people. People like you. Crimes the government considered irrelevant. They wouldn't act, so I decided I would. But I needed a partner. Someone with the skills to intervene. Hunted by the authorities, we work in secret. You will never find us. But victim or perpetrator, if your number's up, we'll find you. [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] [TIRES SCREECH] KOSKA [OVER PHONE]: Yeah. We've got a problem. [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] What's good here? That won't work, Mr. Reese. - What won't? - Your interrogation technique. "What's good here?" It's an innocent question. No question is ever innocent from you. You're trying to determine whether I come here often. Armed with that knowledge, you'll try to figure out where I live. You're paranoid, Finch. With good reason. Maybe I just don't know what's good here so I'm asking a regular. Enjoy your meal, Mr. Reese. REESE: Samuel Gates. The next number on your list. Bus is here. So what do we have on him? Born in South Boston. Law degree from NYU. [OVER PHONE] He lives on the Upper West Side with his son, Sam. - Where's the wife? - She died last year. REESE: Any chance Gates was involved? FINCH: Not unless he found a way to give her cancer. Elizabeth Gates was diagnosed with an inoperable brain tumor last April. - By November, she was gone. - So the son is all he has left. CHRISTINA: Wait. - Oh, don't forget your lunch. - What do we know about the nanny? - Christina Rojas. - Gates hired her when his wife fell ill. REESE: The kid sure likes her. Spends a lot of time with him. By the hours she's billing I'd say Gates was putting in long days at the office. REESE: He lost the woman he loved. Probably threw himself into his work to cope. - Where's his office? - Criminal Court, city of New York. Which may explain why the machine has sent us his social. GATES: Absolutely not. This is direct evidence, properly obtained. REESE: So odds are, he's the victim, not the perpetrator. FINCH: Judges get plenty of death threats. MATTHEWS: It doesn't pass the balancing test. Probative value I know what the balancing test is, counselor. REESE: Gates gets more death threats than most. Word at the courthouse is he's waging a one-man war on crime. Tough, by the book, making lots of enemies. If video of the actual crime is unfairly prejudicial I think we might have to give up on the entire concept of trial by jury. The video's in. FINCH: Everyone has enemies. The machine identifies malice and intent to harm. We need to determine which threat it saw, which one is real. REESE: Until we know, my best bet is to stay close to Gates in case somebody makes a move. Looks like he's got quite a collection of enemies. Mr. Reese, any sign of a threat? Does cholesterol count? I'm nearly done analyzing the threatening letters. There are nine that I still can't source, but I've identified six possible suspects. Any of them white guys with crew cuts? FINCH: Not that I'm aware of. MAN 1: I'll call you back as soon as I get into town. WOMAN 1: All right, thanks very much. [KEYPAD BEEPS] MAN 2: Yeah, that's fine. WOMAN 2: I just got out now. Finch, what's the son's name again? Samuel Gates Jr. Why? I think we've been following the wrong Sam Gates. Hey, Christina. You're not gonna believe what Mark C said to Ms. Kizer today. [TIRES SCREECH] [SAM MUMBLING] [GRUNTS] [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] I can't be there in time if I'm getting bad information. The machine did not send us the wrong number. If it says Judge Gates is in danger, he is. - Well, tell that to his son. - The kidnapping must connect. It could be the first step in a larger plot that ends with the judge dead. We can still put a stop to it, all of it. But we need a plan. I have a plan: Find Sam. The man just lost his wife. I won't let him wind up alone. [CELL PHONE RINGS] Judge Gates. SAM [OVER PHONE]: Dad? - Hey, Sam. SAM: Dad What's wrong? KOSKA [OVER PHONE]: He's fine, Your Honor. For now. Who are you? - And where is my son? KOSKA: No cops. No feds. Tell anyone and he's dead. Keep quiet and you'll hear from us tonight. Wait. Look, we can handle this ourselves. Just tell me what you want. [DIAL TONE] [KEYPAD BEEPING] SAM [ON VOICEMAIL]: This is Sam. Leave a message. [KEYPAD BEEPING] Uh, Christina, this is Judge Gates. Please call me back. Hi, uh, this is Judge Gates. Is Sam there with Daniel? DANIEL'S MOM [OVER PHONE]: No. Is everything okay? Oh, God. Let's figure out how we get your son back. Who are you? I'm here to help you. Where is Sam? Where is my son? You're with the kidnappers, aren't you? No. I tried to stop them. The kidnappers made contact. That's good. That means they wanna negotiate. They won't hurt your son as long as he's worth something. What do you mean, you tried to stop them? - You were there? - I was. But not soon enough. How did you know they were gonna take him? Who the hell are you? You have two questions right now: "Who are you?" and "Where is my son?" Which one do you wanna focus on? [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] They were in my house. How'd they get past the alarm? I've tapped your phone and I'm setting up surveillance on your street. It's our best shot at ID'ing them. Where's Christina? She was supposed to be here when he got home. REESE: I didn't see her. Could she be in on it? That's impossible. She loves Sam. Judge. Have you received any kidnapping threats? Tried any cases involving kidnappers? I have about $300,000 in the bank. If this is about money, I can pay. Whatever this is about, I'm gonna find your son and I'm gonna bring him home. Stay here and wait for the next call. They said no cops, no FBI. They didn't say anything about me. [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] REESE [OVER PHONE]: Okay, Finch, you should have audio on his land line and video of the street outside Gates' house. I wanna save that boy as much as you do, but remember, Mr. Reese we don't need a judge asking about who we are and what we do. I can't work a kidnapping from arm's length. I'll worry about Gates once we get Sam back. Where are we on the kidnappers? Any luck tracing their call? I'm afraid not. It was Voice over IP, anonymized through the Internet. REESE: What about the phone the spotter threw in the trash? FINCH: It's a disposable, obviously. Not much on the SIM card. Some disconnected numbers and a handful of texts, all equally cryptic. So I'm trying to hack the cell company for more information but their firewall is impressive. You can't get in? You built a machine that spies on the entire country. When you work for the government, access is not a problem. Things are different now. I'll figure it out. Well, figure it out quick. The kidnappers killed the nanny. They must have gotten Gates' alarm code out of her. WOMAN [OVER PHONE]: [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] - Hey, you seen Carter? MAN: Nope. [SIGHS] Detective. You came down from the 51 st, right, Fusco? The Bronx's finest. What brought you here? I wanted a change of scenery. Wanted or needed? - You got something you wanna say? - I heard rumors that got me concerned. [CHUCKLES] I just like to know what I'm dealing with. [CELL PHONE BEEPS] Carter, I'm gonna buy you a coffee, since you've been so nice. Cream, no sugar. [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] Oh, he comes when he's called. Good. Now if I could just train you to stop trying to kill me. [FUSCO CHUCKLES] How long am I gonna have to work down here? Commute's a bitch. You should be grateful. Takes some guys years to make Task Force. Plus, I let you live. Carter, is she getting close? All I know right now is you pissed off real police. She's not gonna stop till she's got you. Is that it? Ballistics. And find out if there have been any ransom kidnappings reported. White guys with crew cuts, one with long hair. Kidnapping's big news. I'd have heard something. REESE: What about AMBER Alerts? Child abduction? Is that what we're dealing with? "We"? Heh. - Since when are you on board? - It's a missing kid. Whatever else I've done, I'm still a cop. If you need some help, you let me know. Do you understand? FINCH [OVER PHONE]: I cracked the cell company's firewall. The spotter's phone was purchased with cash and a phony name. But our kidnappers have to sleep somewhere. Location data puts this phone on the same block in Brooklyn every night. Fourteenth between Franklin and Wythe. REESE: Then I'll hit him where he lives. [YELLS] Finch? - I just found our guy. - Is he talking? Not at the moment. Turski, Leon Josef, with an F. Hold on. I know who has Sam. Szajka Pruszkeiw Dziewiec: SP-9. It's a nasty street gang from Eastern Europe. Dealt with them in your former employment? They were trading with the Pashtun warlords. Guns for heroin. But they also run kidnappings in Warsaw. Looks like they just opened up a new branch in New York. Come on, let's go for a ride. MAN: That's all I need, detective. CARTER: Thank you. - Carter, Homicide. I got your message. - Hey. Detective Olson. I got your BOLO. White male, 6'2", graying temples, nice suit. Super said he saw him leaving at the time of the 911. - You get audio on the call? - What audio? Nobody said "boo." ME said she was dead two hours before. So, uh, you think your guy killed her? No. I think he called 911. Great. She's FOB from Puerto Rico. No family, no boyfriend. Man, I thought you were gonna gift wrap this for me. What kind of work did she do? Oh, she was a nanny on the West Side. We got unis talking to her clients. So if your guy wasn't the shooter, what was he doing here? GATES: Someone killed Christina? Oh, God. She wasn't here when Sam came home. Sam? My son. She wasn't here when he came home from school so he called me. I came home to be with him. He's upstairs playing now. Thanks for your time, judge. Christina was, uh She was, uh with us the night that Elizabeth died. She was so good with Sam. She was just a kid. Hey, he's alive, okay? As long as they need him, Sam's still alive. You don't know that. I need your help, judge. Have you ever heard of Szajka Pruszkeiw, SP-9? What are you, an ex-cop? FBI? I have experience in situations like this. That's all you need to know. Yeah? Well, maybe you're not enough. Maybe I should call those officers and tell them the truth. I know how to be invisible, the police and FBI don't. But I'm going after your son, regardless. Now, have you ever heard of a gang called SP-9? No. Who are they? [PHONE RINGING] That's them now. Hello? MAN: You're alone? GATES [OVER PHONE]: Yes. I need proof that my son is alive. Put Sam on the phone. SAM [OVER PHONE]: Dad? - Sam. - Are you hurt? SAM: Dad, please, I wanna go home. Sam? Sam? MAN: Relax, Your Honor. Your son is just fine. He's a good boy. Smart like you. How much? I'll pay anything you want. See? Smart. But fortunately for you, we don't want your money. We want your help. There's a case in your court right now. The People v. Angela Markham. The People are going to lose. - What? MAN: Throw the case, judge. Angela Markham walks or your son dies. Angela Markham? She mowed down some guy in a parking garage. It's a simple hit-and-run. Well, now she's become the key to finding your son. [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] GATES: Angela Markham is an account exec at a tech company near the Trade Center. Six weeks ago, she got drunk at an office retirement party and hit a CPA on her way out. Charged with DWI and vehicular manslaughter. It's just a random accident. What's this woman have to do with the people who took my son? REESE: I don't know, but it's not just Sam's life they're playing with. They're planning to kill you too. How can you know that? Where are you getting your information? Let's say I have a source and it's never wrong. Look, these people can't be reasoned with. They can't be trusted. If we're gonna save your son, I need to find a way to hurt them. The trial resumes in 30 minutes. What do I do? Just stall. Make it look like you're cooperating. Buy me time. [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] Well, this isn't a street gang, this is a multinational corporation. REESE: Hmm. SP-9 is active in at least 18 countries in Europe, Asia. After Interpol took down the old Pruszkw Mafia, they got smarter. Started hiding their tattoos, studied military discipline, computers. They have almost no digital footprint. I have yet to found anything that could help us find Gates' son. Then focus on her. Somehow this girl and that gang connect. My best guess, whoever she's sleeping with is high up in SP-9. I bet her boyfriend knows where they're keeping Sam. While I'm checking into the girl, what'll you be doing? Tracking down the rest of them. [GRUNTING] The longest it's ever taken me to break someone is 16 hours. [MUMBLING] You don't look like you're gonna set a record. Wanna talk? You must like it in there. Caught a fresh one? CARTER: My guy in a suit led me to another case. Nanny from the Bronx. Murdered on her lunch break. FUSCO: Shooter dug the slugs out, huh? - Just the one. And I'm not so sure that was the shooter. [CELL PHONE RINGING] It's my ex, I gotta take this. You got a creepy sense of timing, man. REESE [OVER PHONE]: Ballistics report, detective. Squat. Your slug's not in the system. But I'm pretty sure Carter's working your crime scene. Does this nanny have anything to do with the missing kid? REESE: I'll call when I need something else. Hey, whoa, whoa, you need all the help you can get right now. If I can ID the nanny killer, it might help you with the kid. Am I wrong? REESE: I'll give you a way to contact me. Keep me posted and keep Carter out of my way. So, what do we got? Primary's thinking romance gone bad, but those are always so messy. This is too clean. Look at the circles on this entrance wound. How many pissed-off boyfriends you know go out and buy a silencer? Romance, my ass. Your killer is a pro. Pull up a chair. BAILIFF: All rise. The honorable Judge Gates presiding. Be seated. In the matter of the People v. Angela Markham court is now in session. [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] [TIRES SCREECH] REESE: Hey, Leon. How's the ride back there? [LEON GROANS] Ah. Now, you can have this juicy burger or you can go for another spin. All you have to do is help me find a scared little boy. I don't know where he is, I swear to God. Who's Angela Markham? - What does she have to do with SP-9? - I never heard of her. I don't know why they wanted that kid. - You don't know much, do you? - That's how they run it. We work in small teams, cells. So who's in your cell? Full names. We only use street names. A-K, Krakow, Sops, Ziom. Look, ugh, there's four guys, that's all I know. Will you please let me out of here? - For no names and no info? - No, no, no, wait, wait, wait. Okay. I know a place. It's 3185 Lorimer. That's where I go to get paid. Good. How am I supposed to eat it? You'll figure it out. OFFICER: I observed a white SUV driving erratically at high speed. I stopped the vehicle for a possible DWI. RAMIREZ: And what did you see when you approached the car? Blood. On the front left fender. Objection. Facts not in evidence. Sustained. Uh, how did the vehicle look? OFFICER: Front-end damage. A red fluid that appeared to be blood - Objection, Your Honor. - Sustained. - What happened then? OFFICER: The defendant got out. She appeared to be intoxicated - Objection. - Sustained. - Your Honor. - Counselor I'm gonna give you some time to better prepare your witness. Resume at 10 a.m. Tomorrow. [BANGS HAMMER] [PHONE RINGING] - Judge Gates. - I'm disappointed, Your Honor. How did you know I was here? Did she tell you? Who is Angela Markham to you anyway? You don't want your son back, is that it? Let me talk to him. Not until you stop stalling. Look I have to do this right or the DA can appeal. You want her free, I have to make sure she stays that way. Do it right. And do it fast. And don't forget what you're playing for. [CELL PHONE BEEPS] We're running out of time, Mr. Reese. REESE [OVER PHONE]: Did you dig up anything on Angela? Going through contacts and e-mails as we speak. Any progress with the gang? REESE: I got an address from Leon Turski. On my way now. [CELL PHONE RINGS] KOSKA [OVER PHONE]: It's as good as done. You think I'm stupid? It's not done until I'm free and clear. KOSKA: This is bad for business. My clients are asking questions. - That's not my problem. - You are the problem. My operation is in jeopardy because you had too many shots. ANGELA: Unless you know someone who can do what I do, our deal stands. Once you get the charges dropped, I go back to work. Business as usual. [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] [YELLS] - Where's the boy? - I don't know. Finch. I just found a way to make these guys hurt. [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] KOSKA [OVER PHONE]: Well find it, and find out who took it. I am missing two men and half a million dollars. Someone is making a move against us, I need to know who. Contact your teams! Change of plans. I guess we know why they didn't ask for money. I have six more just like it. Could be our bargaining chip to get Sam. There may be lots more where these came from. Angela's not sleeping with our kidnapper, she's in business with him. That tech company she works for, they make banking software the kind that can spot money laundering. And I just found a room full of small bills. In 2009, she oversaw the installation of a new anti-money-laundering system at OneState Bank. If she still has access she could turn that whole system off with the click of a mouse. Then SP-9 uses one of the biggest banks in the world to clean its dirty money. They leave no digital footprint because this is how they pay for things. Cars, lawyers, safe houses. If we can access those accounts, we'll have more than a bargaining chip we'll have a way to find Sam Jr. [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] GATES: They know I'm stalling. We're getting close. You just need to hold off a little longer. GATES: You've had your chance. I'm not playing games with my son's life. They'll kill you both as soon as they get what they want. Now, I can save your son. You just have to trust me. Upon further review, I'm reversing my decision on admissibility. - Your Honor. GATES: It doesn't pass the balancing test. This video would unfairly bias the jury against Ms. Markham. - Then I move for a mistrial. - Denied. - Judge Gates - Approach. There a problem, counselor? Respectfully, sir, what the hell is going on? One more word and you are in contempt. I'll have you charged with misconduct if I have to. Trust me, Ms. Ramirez, you have no idea how far I'll go. Nothing further. Prosecution rests. [BEEPS] Hey, that's, uh, account data, it's confidential. - Not anymore, we just got hacked. - What? How'd they get past the firewall? - I'm working here. - What's your name? Who are you? Considering they called me when your system was compromised I'd say I'm the guy who just took your job. A hospital would be nice about now. Where's the boy? - I already told you, I don't know. - How about your boss's name? - You know that yet? - I got a family, you gonna kill them too? Because he will. - You ever see two cats in a bag? - What? You want out? Get your boss's name. [DROST YELLS] Carter. Come here, I think I got something. I did another canvass and found a bodega near the nanny's house with eyes on the street. And it's on the N.Y.P.D. Surveillance feed. This is right around the time of the murder. Look at this. White guy, long hair, pulling off gloves. He could be our killer. Or just a guy with cold hands. What makes you so sure Mr. Long-Hair is our man? You get a description I don't know about? I got a hunch. I ran his plate to get a name, but I got a company instead. Coldfield Holdings. It's in Brooklyn. Worth a look. Finch, got a name for you. Jarek Koska, word is he's the boss. Well, if he is, he's careful. No accounts in his name. The operation is massive. Every morning at 5 a. M Angela shuts down OneState's software for three minutes. Millions of dollars flow in undetected. SP-9's not just laundering their own money they have hundreds of clients. All criminal themselves, I'm sure. If Koska's using a shell corporation, it could take hours to find it. [CELL PHONE RINGS] Finch, try Coldfield. Definitely a large account. Looks like the money's being used to buy boats, planes, real estate. Most of it right here in New York. Get a list. The place they're holding Sam will be on it. I'm sending you an address. A building less than 10 blocks from Gates' house. Purchased just two days before Angela went on trial. REESE: If I can find Sam, the judge won't have to throw her case. FINCH: Well, you better move fast. I think Angela's jury just reached a verdict. Finch, if you don't hear from me in four minutes, call 911 send them here, and tell them about Sam. GATES: Please rise. - Has the jury reached a verdict? - We have, Your Honor. What say you? [CELL PHONE BEEPS] We find the defendant not guilty on all charges. [MURMURING] KOSKA [OVER PHONE]: If you want your son back come alone. No cell, no GPS, no weapons. If I see anyone who's not you, your son dies. FINCH: So Angela Markham walks and Judge Gates is heading to a death sentence. The machine sent his number because they were planning to kill him all along. REESE [OVER PHONE]: Scorched earth policy. Cover their tracks as soon as they get what they want. - We need to warn him. REESE: I've tried, he won't listen. But we have to do something. REESE: We are. Hello, Angela. [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] I wanna see my son. Dad. Sam. - No! - I'll let you say goodbye. Look, you've got me. I did what you asked. Everything you asked. You can keep me, but please let my son go. Sorry, Your Honor. ANGELA: Stop. Your name is Jarek Koska. Your bank account number is 127-834-0102. Last year, you laundered at least 400 million to clients including MS-13, the Sinaloa Cartel and the government of North Korea. So you got some info from that alcoholic bitch. I'm the last one you'll ever tell. - These aren't good odds for you. - I'm not alone. [CELL PHONE RINGS] Every last dime has been transferred to an offshore account. Do exactly what I say, and you might get it back. But if they don't walk out of here alive every client on your list will be notified that you've lost all their money. I won't have to kill you, your clients will do that for me. The operation's burnt. Shoot them all. [GRUNTS] SAM: Dad. - Judge, is he all right? - Yeah. Then take him home. It's time we go for a little ride. And there's Mr. Long-Hair's car. N.Y.P.D. Anybody home? [SIRENS WAILING] [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] GATES: Shoot, shoot. - Goal! SAM: Goal, whoo! Whoo! That's us, 10, tree, 0. - You're so weird, Dad. - Wanna do it again? - Let's go. - Here you go. I wasn't sure I'd ever see you again. Yeah, I'm, uh, not great at keeping in touch with people. I don't know how to thank you. You don't need to say anything. I'd prefer it actually. Look I don't know exactly what you do, or how you're doing it but I know that if people ever find out when they find out there won't be anything I can do to protect you. Go play with your son. [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] What did he say? That we don't need to worry. He might even help us someday. I was listening to your conversation, Mr. Reese. And I was reading between the lines. I suppose only time will tell which one of us is right. Thank you. I beg your pardon? For giving me a job. WOMAN: Table 10, that was a short stack Try the eggs Benedict, Mr. Reese. I've had them many times.
FINCH: You are being watched. The government has a secret system. A machine that spies on you every hour of every day. I know because I built it. I designed the machine to detect acts of terror, but it sees everything. Violent crimes involving ordinary people. People like you. Crimes the government considered irrelevant. They wouldn't act, so I decided I would. But I needed a partner. Someone with the skills to intervene. Hunted by the authorities, we work in secret. You will never find us. But victim or perpetrator, if your number's up, we'll find you. WOMAN [ON RECORDING]: You know why I'm here. You know how I feel. I can't hide it anymore. What we're doing is wrong. You're not my regular guy. He's sick. They called me to fill in at the last moment. [PHONE DIALS] FINCH [OVER PHONE]: Callahan Car Service. Zoe Morgan. You changed my driver. FINCH: Sorry for the inconvenience, Ms. Morgan. Bill's come down with laryngitis. Caught it from his son. Which son? FINCH: Andy, the younger one. We've sent our best driver in his place. I'll be the judge of that. No small talk, no questions. You stay in the car and you keep your eyes on the road. - We settle up at the end of the night. - I look forward to it. FINCH [OVER PHONE]: Little trouble picking this lock, Mr. Reese. It's not as easy as it looks. [DOOR OPENS] Never mind. I'm in. [DOOR CLOSES] No photos of family or friends. Some jazz records. She dropped out of law school, no current employer. But she buys a $2 million apartment for cash three years ago. What's she gotten herself mixed up in? Where does she keep the things she cares about? Where do you? I don't have any things I care about. Slip. Zoe. You got it? SLIP: You know I always come through for you. Be good, Slip. She just paid for something, a lot of money, cash. - Do you know what it is? REESE: No. You wanna know where people hide things, Finch? Underneath. [SIGHS] Keep your eyes on the road. FINCH: Uh-oh. Leave it running. I won't be long. Finch, the item she bought was a gun. But she's already got a gun in her living room. Why does she need another? Only reason you buy a gun off the street so it's untraceable. Possible her number came up because she plans to kill someone. [CHATTERING] Finch, she's a shooter. Target's a cop. ZOE: Lieutenant Gilmore. You owe me one. And so does the cop who left his sidearm in a subway bathroom. Believe me, he knows. You saved a good cop's career. - We need all the men we can get right now. ZOE: Mm-hm. Are you sure it doesn't have to do with the fact that he's your nephew? Either way, I'm grateful. And in a perfect world, gratitude would be enough. That politically motivated investigation that you're running into Councilman Rush? About time you wrap it up, don't you think? Now I know where the term "necessary evil" comes from. That makes us square? No. But it's a good start. See anything interesting tonight? Nothing worth mentioning. Be here tomorrow, 10 sharp. I hope you're out of there, Finch. FINCH: Do you know what she does yet? She does favors for a price. She's a fixer. Assuming then that she's the victim any idea who'd want to take her out? Who wouldn't? [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] CARTER: What you got, Terney? - Vincent DeLuca. Seventy-one years old. Public service homicide, if you ask me. Guy was an enforcer for La Cosa Nostra in Brighton Beach. Stabbing's personal. Is this knife from the kitchen? Nothing there but a set of steak knives. CARTER: This one's not serrated. Looks old, dull. Painful. We got a rap sheet on this old gangster? Reads like a phone book. Armed robbery, racketeering. He was charged with homicide in the, uh, mid '70s. Marlene Elias? - What's that? - Uh, 1973. The murder charge he skated on. Victim was Marlene Elias. The evidence was stolen from lockup a couple weeks back. Evidence stolen from a 40-year-old cold case? CARTER: And the murder weapon. Marlene Elias was stabbed multiple times in her chest with a kitchen knife. REESE: Finch, looks like Zoe's meeting with some businessmen. I'm sending you photos. Got another guy watching from an SUV. Run a license plate for me. Greg-Henry-Oscar-seven-five-six-one. Ms. Morgan. FINCH: I got a hit on that license plate. Registered to Samuel Douglas head of crisis management, Virtanen Pharmaceuticals. - You familiar with Anthony Talbott? - Should I be? He's an investment blogger. No ethics or boundaries. He'd do anything to get an inside scoop. Including violate our employees' right to privacy. We wouldn't be talking if this had anything to do with just an employee. What's he have on your boss? Douglas' boss is the gentleman in the car, Mark Lawson. DOUGLAS: A recording, he claims. Conversation with a certain lady that could be misconstrued. An affair? Who cares? His wife. Mr. Lawson is in line to run Virtanen. He already handles the day-to-day. But his father-in-law is still the CEO. What the old man doesn't know What's Talbott asking? DOUGLAS: Forty thousand. His cell phone number's in there. Oh, and, uh, one more thing I'll get the recording. I don't need to know what's on it. We appreciate your discretion, as always. Good afternoon, Mr. Talbott. Nice of Virtanen to send a skirt. I understand you have something of interest to my client. You know, it is amazing what you can find just drifting out there in the ether. One thing I have learned about the, uh, smartest guys in the room: They just can't keep it in their pants. WOMAN [ON RECORDING]: You know why I'm here. You know how I feel. I can't hide it anymore. - This is all 40? - Count it. At home. By the way, I would have asked for 80. Maybe it's a skirt thing. Talbott's a blackmailing scumbag, but hardly a threat. - What about her previous jobs? FINCH: No client list in her apartment. - You need to get her talking. - Easier said than done. [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] Ah. Detective Sullivan? Not for years now. Bernie or Sully. Dealer's choice. I, um, wanted to talk to you about that case you worked back in '73. Marlene Elias. How did that mess come up again? A man I'm investigating broke into the evidence lockup a few weeks ago. He and his crew stole the contents of the evidence box. Your notes, the murder weapon, an 8-inch kitchen knife which just turned up plunged into the chest of your lead suspect. Hmm. That would be divine retribution. What can you tell me about DeLuca? Piece of work. I had him dead to rights on murdering that woman. The dimwit left a partial on the knife. The DA dropped the case? Bought and sold. Back then the city was different. Marlene was a cocktail waitress. She worked, uh, in a club owned by Gianni Moretti. She has an affair with the don. She wants him to dump his wife. He gets tired of her complaints and sends our friend here, the cutlery rack, to shut her up. He did, permanently. The thing that stuck with me was the kid. - Kid? What kid? - I dug these up. Marlene and the don had a kid, a son. He was out back playing when it happened. He came inside and he found her. Kid walked all the way to the station. I've still got that image of him standing there with no shoes on. What happened to him? Moretti didn't want to cop to the affair, so the kid went into the system. I don't have to tell you what happens to those kids. You think he's your killer? Don't know who else would go to so much trouble. [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] [JAZZ MUSIC PLAYING OVER SPEAKERS] - What is that? REESE: Oh, just some old bootlegs. You like jazz? - You do? - Sure. Always loved what Miles Davis said about jazz: "Don't play what's there. Play what's not there." Really? You seem to know how to play people. I don't play people. I fix their problems. And to answer your question, no, I hate jazz. [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] Were you supposed to be meeting with two people or one? What does it matter? - Let me take care of this, Zoe. - It's Ms. Morgan. Get back in the car. Didn't tell me this was a party. Talbott handed it over. No problems. [CAR DOOR OPENS] [CAR DOOR CLOSES] Did you listen to this? You didn't hire me to listen. Mr. Lawson would like to thank you. - His fee is all that's necessary. - No, we insist. Walter, get the driver. [GUNFIRE] [TIRES SCREECHING] REESE: Get down. ZOE: Ah! Guess I pay you to do more than drive. FINCH: Mr. Reese, are you okay? The hand-off was an ambush. Douglas tried to kill both of us. - Oh, thanks. I was there, remember? FINCH: Is she safe? - For now, a little shaken up. - Who you talking to? FINCH: They will kill for that recording. We need to find out what's on it. REESE: Send me Talbott's address. - Who the hell are you? Could say we're in the same business, fixing problems. I had information that you might be in danger. Information? Who gave it to you? You have your people, I have mine. We need to find the journalist who sold you that recording, find out what's on it. I made a copy. I'm discreet, not stupid. WOMAN [ON RECORDING]: I can't hide it anymore. What we're doing is wrong. - Who's the girl on the tape? - No idea. - Can barely make it out. WOMAN: I wanna tell someone. [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] - Stay here. FINCH: Mr. Reese? Report on the police band. Talbott is dead. Apparent cardiac arrest. Douglas moves fast. Killing everyone who had contact with that recording. They've gone to this much trouble. They'll come after Ms. Morgan again. You need to stay with her. That's gonna be a problem. WOMAN [OVER RECORDING]: I wanna tell someone. It keeps me up at night. FINCH: I'm working on the audio. Interference suggests it was made on an old PCS cell network making the recording at least two years old. I didn't know static had a vintage. I did manage to find a match on the woman's voice. Compared it against video from social networking sites, corporate press. Two hundred and sixty-eight possible matches, six who lived in New York but only one who worked at Virtanen Pharmaceuticals. Virtanen is more than just a pharmaceutical company. We create products that help and heal. Virtanen is a family. One I hope to be a part of for many years to come. Dana Miller, Lawson's mistress, was an office romance. Nice work, Finch. I wouldn't be so quick to congratulate me. It's not the first time I've heard Dana Miller's name. Six months ago the machine gave me her number. I had yet to track you down, so I wasn't in a position to help her. Newspaper said she died of a brain aneurysm. She was 27. And as you know, the machine doesn't see accidents. So she wanted to go public with the affair and Lawson had her killed for it. Why not pay her off, Finch? Mark Lawson is heir to the entire Virtanen empire. If Robert Keller ever found out, Lawson would lose everything. Wouldn't be hard for someone working at a pharmaceutical company to make murder look like natural causes. I never thought I'd know the truth about what happened to her. Now I also know the men responsible. We can stop them from ever giving us another number. Get out there and find Ms. Morgan. Every moment we don't have her, Douglas can get to her. What are you gonna do? I have an important business meeting. A recent investment of mine. [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] We cleared my schedule for a meeting with a shareholder? Guy isn't just a shareholder. He's bought 87 million shares in the last 48 hours. He now owns 8 percent of Virtanen's stock. - I've never heard of this guy. - No one has. Maybe a straw buyer for a takeover, hostile bid. But, uh, kid gloves. We may want to wheel the old man in here to press the flesh. WOMAN: Right this way, sir. Mr. Partridge. Mark Lawson. Pleasure to meet you. Thank you for meeting me on such short notice. I thought I knew everyone with an investment portfolio as broad as yours. When you're in a position where people want your money a little anonymity is rather rewarding. From my time in Japan, I learned never go to a business meeting empty-handed. That is too generous. Thank you. Would you care for a tour of our facilities? This way. What we like to focus on is what people really need, pain relief. I can certainly relate to that. Well, we reached a 20 percent market share last year. That's only gonna rise with the launch of our new product line anchored by Sylocet. - Sylocet? New migraine drug. Revolutionary. Just approved by the FDA. Mr. Partridge. Robert Keller. This is an impressive empire you've built here, sir. Well, it's Mark's empire now. Retirement isn't officially until next spring but he makes all the big decisions. Don't tell anyone. I'd hate to lose my table at the country club. [BOTH CHUCKLE] If you'll excuse me, Mr. Partridge. Mark has done an incredible job not only in keeping our finances in order but overseeing a good amount of product research. Mr. Keller, I like what I see here. I'm confident my money is in good hands. Lovely meeting you. [CELL PHONE RINGS] Excuse me, I have to take this. DOUGLAS [OVER PHONE]: Flash drive's recovered. Talbott won't be a problem again. LAWSON: Great work. DOUGLAS: There's just one loose end. Zoe Morgan. She had a bodyguard posing as a driver. It was an unforeseen circumstance. That's not a loose end. That's the whole thing falling apart. - I'll handle her. - And the driver too. Nothing can connect us to this thing. [RINGS] - Carter. SULLIVAN [OVER PHONE]: It's Sully. I managed to fill in some of the blanks on the young Carl Elias. CARTER: Good work. - No, not so good. Uh, the kid was, uh, like a professional runaway from the age of 8. Couldn't stay anywhere more than a couple months. No one really knew him. Nobody except for some tough old bird named Gloria Recinto. Apparently she, uh, looked after him. He would send her a Christmas card and, uh, some money every year. You gotta read these things, Carter. It's as if the guy was gonna either be president or Attila the Hun. - You want me to bring them in? - I'll swing by and pick them up. I'm gonna make myself beautiful for you. Good luck with that, Sully. DANA [ON RECORDING]: You know why I'm here. You know how I feel. I still can't find Zoe. DANA: I can't hide it anymore. But if I can't track her down, Douglas probably can't either. I'm trying to clean up this recording, fill in the blanks. I think Dana recorded this in Lawson's office. Listen. DANA: What we're doing is wrong. So she recorded the conversation on her cell phone. - To blackmail him? - No, I don't think so. Here's the fountain in his office. Using the bug I planted, I was able to get room tone. Then I can strip it back out of the original recording. Listen, this is much clearer. DANA: I can't hide it anymore. What we're doing is wrong. I wanna tell someone. It keeps me up at night knowing what our drug has done. LAWSON: You need to think very carefully FINCH: "It keeps me up at night knowing what our drug has done." I still can't clean up the last part of the recording. But there's enough here to tell that Dana was not having an affair with Lawson. She was threatening to blow the whistle on him. You know, before we Before I found you the numbers haunted me. I'd never felt so helpless in my entire life. And I know I can't get justice for all of them. But the possibility of having it for just one [COMPUTER BEEPS] Looks like our Ms. Morgan has decided to be found after all. This time, when you find her, try not to lose her. [MELLOW JAZZ MUSIC PLAYING OVER SPEAKERS] So you are tracking my cell phone. I know how all the pieces of this city fit together. I know all the players. I know all the angles. And then there's you. You know, I don't understand you. And I don't like things that I don't understand. Then why did you want me here? Because I don't have to like you to get some use out of you. The girl on the recording, her name was Dana Miller. Lawson had her killed, but not because she was sleeping with him. I know. She worked at Virtanen. She was gonna come out in public, a scandal involving one of their drugs. Not bad. But it's not the whole story. She worked in Clinical Trials. Five days before she was killed, she was transferred out. Access suspended. How did you come by that? You have your people, I have mine. Let me guess. You're looking to strike a deal with Virtanen. No, not this time. I thought everyone had an angle. I knew this girl once. Naive. She got a tough lesson in the way the world works. And it reminds me of Dana. Also they tried to kill you. Well, there's that too. You wanna get out of here? Where are we going? To do something illegal. ZOE: Lieutenant Gilmore. I almost didn't recognize you without that cute uniform. What do you want now? Gonna be a break-in at Virtanen Pharmaceuticals tonight. I need you to make sure that the police don't respond. After this, we're done. [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] REESE [OVER PHONE]: All right, Finch, our cameras are in place. I have full coverage. Proceed. Hold this. So these people are trying to kill you and you plan to break into their offices? I prefer the direct approach. At the south entry. Any guards on the other side? FINCH: Two guards on the first floor. None on the stairwell. - Go ahead. - Going in. Do I ever get to meet this imaginary friend? REESE: He's a very private person. FINCH: Wait, there's a guard on the third floor stairs. He's coming your way. You're clear. Go. You can probably get out of anything with a paper clip. Where'd you learn this stuff? It's a long story. FINCH: Still clear, Mr. Reese. They deleted Dana's e-mail and browser history. Nothing is ever really deleted. The pieces are always out there. Just have to know how to put them back together. Use the recovery software. Oh, yeah. ZOE: Right there. She accessed this file a dozen times in the days before she was killed. REESE: Looks like a clinical trial for their new drug, Sylocet. FDA approved. ZOE: But it's been altered. These are two files with the same name, but the older one is slightly larger. Six names are missing from the trial data Virtanen submitted to the FDA. I need those names, Mr. Reese. Here it comes. - They're all dead, Mr. Reese. REESE: Dead? FINCH: Every person on that list died of heart failure within a year of taking the drug. Lawson dropped them from the study, paid the locals to hide it. Their new wonder drug is a killer. Six people out of 200, that's a 3 percent mortality rate. If a million people take that drug 30,000 could die. Wait. What is that sound? Air conditioning. Why? That's what I've been missing. Listen. Don't talk, don't move. I need a clean recording. Perfect. I'll be in touch. Well, well, well. Guess we should call the cops, huh? Bad move, lieutenant. If I can't trust you, I'll have to destroy you. Something makes me think you won't get that chance. Besides, I held up my end. You wanted the cops not to respond? This is the cops not responding. DANA: Keeps me up at night knowing what our drug has done. LAWSON: Think very carefully about what you're doing. DANA: You're leaving me with no choice. I'm gonna go to Keller. Reese, I think I found something. Mr. Reese? DOUGLAS [OVER PHONE]: I told you I'd handle it. - I got them both. LAWSON: I'm on my way. You never did tell me your name. John. My name's John. Of course it is. So, John, how did you know I was gonna be in trouble? Given your choice of career, it doesn't seem like much of a stretch. You might consider a new line of work. You're one to judge. Besides, you don't know anything about me. I know almost everything about you. I know you grew up in a nice house in Yonkers. I know your dad was a city official till he got snared in a corruption case. I know you spent the rest of your childhood in a little apartment in Queens with your mother. About the only thing I don't know about you is why you started doing whatever it is you do. My dad was a party man. Machine politician. Did what he was told. Right up until the cops showed up and put the cuffs on him. The local press was camped out on our lawn for weeks. Then this guy showed up. The guy that the party would send to deal with uncomfortable situations. He said two words. And those reporters they packed up, and they left. And they never came back. And I realized that's what I want to be. The person who knows what to say and always has something to trade. So, what are you gonna trade now? It's Mr. Partridge. I need to speak to Mr. Keller immediately. WOMAN [OVER PHONE]: I'm sorry, Mr. Keller's unavailable Put him on the phone now. It's extremely urgent. A matter of life and death. So we're finally face-to-face. - You're making a mistake, Mark. - I'm not the one handcuffed to a chair. So you saw the Sylocet report? Hope you don't mind, I e-mailed a copy to a friend so I could read it more thoroughly. Okay, so where is it now? With the only person I trust. And if anything happens to us, that report goes public. Everyone will know your new drug kills. What do you think Keller will do to you when he finds out? Tell you what, since Zoe loves negotiating so much I'll offer you two a deal. First one to give up that report gets to live. WOMAN [OVER PHONE]: Mr. Keller will be with you in a moment. Thank you. DANA: You're leaving me with no choice. I'm gonna go to Keller. LAWSON: You wanna tell the old man? Here's your chance. KELLER: Think anything happens in my company without me knowing it, young lady? How stupid do you think I am? WOMAN [OVER PHONE]: Mr. Partridge, you're on with Mr. Keller. [SPEAKING INDISTINCTLY] Mark. Why aren't they dead yet? She says she has a copy of the report. Just when I thought you could handle something truly important. Ms. Morgan, be reasonable. Every new drug has side effects. That's why we have disclaimers and insurance. This moral crusade doesn't suit you. The Zoe Morgan I know is reasonable. Knows when to make the smart play. I'll get you the report. I'll bring you right to it. I told you. Always have something to trade. Let's go. [DOOR CLOSES] [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] DOUGLAS: You know, you really shouldn't be surprised by what Zoe did. Never trusted that bitch. Always looking for an angle. Potassium chloride? Government uses it for lethal injections. Stops the heart in minutes. Quite humane, really. Lucky you. Lucky me? [GRUNTING] [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] I'm on my way now. The Naval Yard. Jail rules: No more phone calls. Clever girl. [CELL PHONE RINGS] - Finch. FINCH: Been trying you for two hours. Keller's involved. He and Lawson worked it together up to and including Dana's murder. REESE: I know. Keller blindsided us, and so did Zoe. She's about to hand over the copy of that trial data to Lawson. You should be more trusting, Mr. Reese. Zoe just sent me her destination. Naval Yard. Sound familiar? I'm on my way. MAN: Ready, sir? Mr. Keller. Sorry I'm late. I'm sorry I started without you, Mr. Partridge but when you're as old as I am, you can't waste a minute. [BOTH CHUCKLE] What's your poison? What the hell are we doing here? You want your report, right? It's right over there. You want me to go get it or you? No, I don't think so. You know what I think? I don't think you e-mailed that report to anybody. I think it's been right here all along. You picked a perfect time to join us, Mr. Partridge. Once Sylocet goes on the market you'll never have to invest in another company again. Uh, see, anybody else, they would've sent this report to the police or the press. But not you. No, you just couldn't resist holding on to one more card. Yep. So you did send it to the one person in the world you could trust: Yourself. Now you're gonna take it to the grave. Let's get the hell out of here. [GUNSHOT] [TASER CRACKLING] REESE: Migraine, huh? Heard they got a pill for that now. You took your time. At what point did you know you were gonna do the right thing? About two seconds before I slipped you the paper clip. KELLER: Anyway pleasant as it is to talk the board and I do need to know what your intentions are now that you own 8 percent of Virtanen. [CELL PHONE BEEPS] Actually, I've sold my shares in Virtanen. I had a tip that the price is about to take a nosedive. A tip? What tip? That senior management was about to have some very serious legal problems. In fact, I took my initial investment and I shorted your company to the tune of a half a billion shares. If you're betting against me, you clearly don't know who you're dealing with. No, I know exactly what kind of man I'm dealing with. I know you don't care who you hurt to get what you want. I know the only thing you do care about is money. So that's what I'm going to take from you. Your money. All of it. You were right, Mr. Keller. Thanks to you, I never will have to invest in another company. CARTER: Excuse me. Detective Sullivan? Sully? It's me, Ca Oh, no. [FOOTSTEPS] Police! MAN [ON RADIO]: Virtanen CEO, Robert Keller, is expected in court today alongside CFO and son-in-law Mark Lawson to answer charges of fraud, conspiracy and murder. Virtanen's migraine drug, Sylocet, has been shelved. Beecher Pharmaceuticals pulled the plug on their version of the drug - Mind turning that off? REESE: Sounds like Beecher got an inside tip. Somebody must have had a big payday. Not as big as you'd think. Dana Miller's family got a healthy donation for their suit against Virtanen. I also heard Lieutenant Gilmore found himself up against some pretty serious corruption charges. Must have upset someone pretty influential. Eyes on the road, John. Ms. Morgan. Stay out of trouble. Not gonna happen. You got my number.
FINCH: You are being watched. The government has a secret system. A machine that spies on you every hour of every day. I know because I built it. I designed the machine to detect acts of terror, but it sees everything. Violent crimes involving ordinary people. People like you. Crimes the government considered irrelevant. They wouldn't act, so I decided I would. But I needed a partner. Someone with the skills to intervene. Hunted by the authorities, we work in secret. You will never find us. But victim or perpetrator, if your number's up, we'll find you. [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] PETER: The call came in. We have a location on the target. IVAN: Get a team and I'll meet you there. PETER: We can handle this. IVAN: No. I want to be there in person. I want to kill him myself. [GUNSHOT] [MAN GROANING] [GRUNTS] CARTER: Wait, can you rewind that for me? Thought I was done mopping up bodega shootings when I got on Homicide. This is like a stick-up job to you? Then you need to go back to a precinct. There was no money taken. Double tap, close range. This was an execution. - We got any ID on the vic? - Not yet. But you haven't seen the best part. Rewind it again. We got ourselves a witness. FUSCO: Any sign of him? CARTER: Put out a BOLO. Had a team canvass a six-block radius. Guy vanished. I'd make myself scarce too. This ain't no neighborhood you wanna be called a snitch. - Hmm, no it's not. - Detective. I've got reporters out there begging me for scraps. - What do I tell them? - Send them to the Task Force guy. - Let him deal with them. OFFICER: Yes, ma'am. Detective Szymanski, Organized Crime, this is Detective Fusco. SZYMANSKl: Nice to meet you. - Was this a mob hit? Victim's a former La Cosa Nostra lieutenant named Benny D'Agostino. He was out of the game for a couple years then popped up again on our radar about six months ago. FUSCO: Brighton Beach is Russian territory. - What's the LCN doing here? SZYMANSKl: There's a war going on. Half a dozen VIPs in the Russian mob were taken out last month. Word is Benny's boss ordered the hits. This was retribution. - So who's his boss? - We don't know much other than a name. Elias. - You heard of him? - Oh, yeah. We go way back. One of his guys took a shot at me last week. This Elias is a clever bastard. Nobody knows what he looks like. What about the witness? Have any luck finding him? No, but have another look at the surveillance footage. CARTER: The victim said something to the witness. If it's a dying declaration and he named the killers, it'd be admissible. Yeah, but we've got a problem. The Russian owner of this fine establishment was on a conveniently timed smoke break when all this went down. He's not giving us anything. You think he told the shooters we found a witness? If he did, the Russians will knock down every door till they find him. My guys are working the block. Something will pop. It better. We gotta get to this witness before the Russians do. [CAMERA CLICKS] FINCH [OVER PHONE]: I received his number last night. His name's Charlie Burton. The guy's worried about something, but I'm not seeing a threat yet. What's his story, Finch? He's a high school history teacher working in the Brighton Beach district. Lives alone, never married. Not much to go on. Oh, maybe a student is after him, you know? Teaching can be a dangerous profession. Yes, I imagine espionage was a much safer choice, Mr. Reese. [CHUCKLES] [PHONE RINGING] Hello, Lionel. I'm not sure how you usually do what you do but I'm looking for a guy and could use some help. He's a witness. Saw a Russian mob hit go down. Caucasian, 5'10," bald. Probably not the most popular guy in class if you know what I mean. We need to find him. I think I already did. Why am I not surprised? FUSCO: Listen, whoever did this hit, they're gonna come looking for him. [TIRES SCREECH] REESE: They've already found him. Mr. Reese, we might wanna leave this one to the authorities. No time. I'm heading in. PETER: Cover the exits. Rest of you, come with me. Get out of my apartment. Mr. Burton, you're in danger. The men from the bodega are here. How do you know? Did they send you? You have a Russian hit team closing in which leaves us approximately 5 seconds before you need to decide. - How do I know you're not one? Because I'm standing in front of you and you're still alive. Doesn't seem like I've got a choice. [KETTLE WHISTLING] - Where did this piece of garbage go? - I'll double-back. FINCH: Mr. Reese, can you get out? Do you need me to call in a distraction? Let me get back to you on that. Come on. [BOTH GRUNTING] [MAN GROANS] [PANTING] Let's get moving. Now. Fastest way out of this neighborhood is through those buildings. Are you joking? Even the Russians don't go into the Double B's. A Bulgarian drug dealer runs the place. Finch, I'm gonna need another route out of here. We're on our own. - I need your cell phone. - I don't believe in them. [PHONE DIALING] Mr. Reese, can you hear me? [BUSY SIGNAL BEEPING] [COMPUTER BEEPS] Hey, this isn't mine. Mine either. Get in. [REESE GRUNTS] May I have your name before we commit grand theft auto? First we need to get you to the police so you can tell them what you saw. The Russian mob is after me. They've got people on the inside. - If I testify, I'm dead. - I know a detective we can trust. But we need to get across the river to Manhattan. Get down! [GROANS] - We need to keep moving. - That's gonna be a problem. REESE: You say the Russians don't go in? - Well that's where we're going. - Agh! Unh. [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] [GROANING] [WOMAN SHOUTING INDISTINCTLY IN DISTANCE] [MEN SPEAKING INDISTINCTLY ON TV] See what I mean? This is crazy. Agh. - I still don't even know who you are. - I help people, and you need help. Well, the bullet went straight through clean. No bone damage. But we need to get you cleaned up before it gets infected. Well, you see a pharmacy nearby? The men you saw last night at the bodega what can you tell me about them? [GROANS] What difference does it make? I guess I like to know a little bit about the guys who are shooting at me. I worked through dinner and I was grading papers and I stopped at the store on my way home. I couldn't decide between minestrone and split pea. And then I saw the guys with guns and I hid. - Did you see their faces? - They had masks. But one of them lifted his like he wanted that guy to see his face. But that guy they killed he said he had a message for someone named Elias. He wanted me to give it to him, but I don't know an Elias. I tried to tell him that. [SIGHS] Mr. Burton, what was the message? I didn't understand it. Something about Vinnie. Vinnie was gonna finish the job for him. Why didn't you call the police? You don't understand this neighborhood, do you? Going to the cops is like Russian roulette. You don't know which side they're on. One of my students' parents filed a police report last year. Then he got into an accident. Still eating through a straw. I'll get you to a police officer you can trust. I'm gonna keep my mouth shut and hope it all blows over. I don't know, these guys looked pretty upset. If I testify, I never get to come back here. And I've worked too hard. This is my home. My students, for starters. I can't leave them. They need me. Well, you won't do those kids any good if you're dead, Mr. Burton. Charlie, please. Mr. Burton is for my students. Do you want to die, Charlie? Because this isn't a history lesson. Those bullets are real. My name is John. Thank you for saving my ass, John. [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] SZYMANSKl: Thanks for coming down, Patti. [DOOR CLOSES] We're all very sorry for your loss. You're not sorry. You hated my husband. No, I only hated what he did for a living. Ma'am, do you know why Benny was in Brighton Beach last night? Was he, uh, conducting business? Mrs. D'Agostino I know that anger you're feeling right now. What it's like to lose someone you love. Help us find the men who did this to your husband. It doesn't matter if you find them. Elias will. And he'll kill each and every single one of those Russian bastards. Elias started a war that can't be won. Now, a lot of innocent people are gonna die if this continues. Do you want that? If that's what it takes. [SIGHS] Where is he, Patti? Where is Elias? I never met him. And his crew, they don't socialize. That's why you'll never find him. I'm a little confused. Why does Elias want Brighton Beach so bad? You're not seeing it. Brighton Beach is just the beginning. Elias has bigger plans. He'll reunite the five families and take out the Russian trash. And then when he's finished, you people will be answering to him. [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] [SIREN WAILING] Hey. Five or six heavily armed men were chasing a guy matching the description of our witness, Charlie Burton. Found out he had groceries delivered twice a month from the bodega. And he wasn't dodging bullets by himself. - Who was he with? - Tall guy in a suit. Definitely not with the Russians. He shot one of them in the knee before they got away. What? You know him? It's just someone I've been tracking for a while. Best I've got, he's former military. A pain in the ass. Either one of them get hit? Seems to be a lot of shots fired. SZYMANSKl: They got off okay. I got a Russian in the hospital who isn't talking. We got an ATM camera across the street. - Might help shed some light on things. - It'll take two weeks to get the footage. Thankfully, a bystander got some footage of her own. Meet Peter Yogorov. As in Ivan Yogorov, the Russian boss? SZYMANSKl: Peter's his son. Yo, officer. Call over to the 8th. Tell them to pull any file we have pertaining to Ivan Yogorov. Ivan Yogorov. You got it. [KEYBOARD CLICKING] FINCH: Where are you, Mr. Reese? Who are these guys? And what's this cop doing with them? N.Y.P. D? [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] GIRL [ON MONITOR]: Daddy, come home. FUSCO [OVER PHONE]: Detective Fusco. Hello, detective. I need to talk to you about our mutual friend. Who's this? And who the hell's our mutual friend? I seem to recall you were going to take him to Oyster Bay once upon a time. - So you're his guy? - No, detective. I think that's your role. I've lost contact with him. Do you have any idea where he and the witness are now? Somewhere in Brighton Beach. Russians opened fire in broad daylight. They're going nowhere with this heat on them. Unfortunately, the Russian Mafia may not be our only problem. I need you to run a license plate for me. Yeah, sure, pal, I'll help you out If you tell me what the hell it is I'm doing. It relates to your case. That's all you need to know. TNF 0818. If I hear anything, how do I get in touch? You don't. I'll find you, detective. I winged the guy. Let's get in there and finish him off. Laszlo, wait up. We need to call Papa, regroup. You wanna wait around out here, fine. I'm going in. You wanna go at it with a bunch of Bulgarian tweakers? We made a deal. They stay out of our territory, we stay out of theirs. Cover every exit. No way those two get out without going past us first. [GUN COCKS] I need you to stay awake, Charlie. Don't want you to go into shock. [SIGHS] So how'd you wind up doing whatever it is you do? It's complicated. What about you? Did you always wanna be a teacher? No, it was sort of a career shift. I came to like the kids a lot. A lot of their parents are affiliated with the Russian mob. I try to give them other options. They're lucky to have you. Only the ones that I get out of the life and into college. What about the kids who don't make it? They're probably the ones shooting at us. Don't go anywhere. What? Wait, where are you going? To find us a pharmacy. [SIGHS] [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] You should be careful about your cholesterol intake, detective. What, are we dating? Do you have the information I asked you for? You're the boss, huh? The voice on the other end of the phone? The plate's registered to a shell corp in midtown. It's a dead end. Hey, let me ask you something. Who are you trying to track down? The Russians aren't the only criminal operation looking for Charlie Burton. - You saying this plate belongs to Elias? - Maybe. You mentioned in your report that the victim spoke to Mr. Burton before he expired. - What? How did you read my report? Mr. Fusco, what matters is that whatever message Benny was passing along it means a great deal to Elias. So the Russians want him dead because he witnessed them take out Benny and Elias wants him dead because he thinks he has sensitive information. - Not his lucky day, is it? - Indeed. That car, I need you to report it stolen. Then e-mail the report number to that address. - Hey, you heard from our mutual friend? - Are you worried about him, detective? - Let's go with curious. - No. No word from him. - Made almost twice what I did yesterday. - Still ain't made more than me. Hello, fellas. Can I borrow some of your drugs? Oh, no. Easy, fella. I'm not looking for a fight. Looks like you found one anyway. [GRUNTING] [GROANS] - Don't do it. I'm telling you, now - Aah! [ANNOUNCER SHOUTING ON TV] Thank you. [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] If Ivan's sons are involved in this, it could be the man himself was at the bodega. Avenge his brother's death in person. Elias' crew took him out last week along with half a dozen other Russian hitters. I thought the Russians were untouchable in Brighton. They were. No one knows where Elias gets his information. He's always one step ahead of all of them, and us. What I still don't get is why Elias is trying to make a move for Brighton Beach. A woman named Marlene Elias was murdered in 1973. She had an illegitimate son with Don Moretti. I think Elias is the Don's kid. Last place Moretti ran before he got locked up was Brighton Beach. So the Don's bastard son came back to clean up? Claim his birthright? [GROANING] [SIGHS] What is that? Cocaine. I guess there's a first time for everything. [CHARLIE CLEARS THROAT] - Is that glue? - Yeah. Nothing like over-the-counter polymer to close a wound in a pinch. You learn all this in hero training? Something like that. Thank you. Sure. No, really. Thank you. If it wasn't for you, I'd be dead right now. You ever use one of these? Don't you think it would be better if you kept it? It's just in case. No. Last time I touched a gun, I shot cans with one of my foster dads. Accidentally killed a bird. Not my favorite childhood memory. It's simple. Look. The safety's there. Just load the magazine like this. Rack it. Simple. Do you really think we'll get out of here? We have a hell of a lot better chance than we did 20 minutes ago. PETER: Here they come. You after those boys running around our building? - That's right. - He took something from my people. We don't give you any problems, you take him out? I can make that deal. Give one to the other guy. We'll help you out a whole lot quicker. Someone told me they were hiding out on the 4th floor. And one of them's already bleeding. [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] REESE: Put this on. If I can find a line that's still operating we can make a call. Wow, I thought I was the only one who still had a hard line. I was hoping there was someone in this building as old-fashioned as you, Charlie. I'm sorry I got you into this mess. It's okay. It's my job. It's a dangerous career choice. That's the second time today I've heard that. It's funny. You remind me of him. [DIALTONE HUMMING] [COMPUTER BEEPING] Finch. - I was just talking about you. - Where are you, Mr. Reese? Double B housing project. Fourth floor. North tower. Find me a way out of here, Finch. One that no one else will use. City Planning Office should have old blueprints. How's Mr. Burton faring? He's wounded, but stubborn. He'll pull through. The Russians aren't the only ones after him. I think Elias is looking for him too. Two service entrances. The one closest to you is in the northeast corridor. - Can you make it there? - We've got no choice. Tell Fusco to meet us at Pier 11, at 7 a.m. We'll be on the East River ferry. Be careful, Mr. Reese. Come on. Go. Service stairs should be around the next corridor. PETER: Keep your eyes open. They could be anywhere. JOSEPH: I think they went this way. - What now? - Wait here. [KNOCKS ON DOOR] MAN: Who's there? [KNOCKS ON DOOR] LASZLO: Check down that way. [DOOR OPENS] - Mr. Burton? - Will. What are you doing? Hey, Will. Came in looking for a shortcut and we just, uh This is my friend, by the way. We just got lost. PETER: Check the south side. Come on. My dad's not home. You can hide in here. [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] [KEYBOARD CLICKING] [LINE RINGS] MAN [OVER PHONE]: Vehicle recovery services. Yeah, this is Detective Fusco, shield number 7645. I'm trying to turn on the locator in a stolen vehicle. Uh, report number is Lima 3-7-7. Thank you, detective. How can I help you? Yeah, could you turn on the car's GPS locator. And the microphone. Of course. Bear with me, please. I thought you and your dad moved out. Not yet. He said we will as soon as he gets a job. Yeah, times are tough right now. I'm sure he'll get one soon. Just don't move out of my school district, okay? - You do your homework? - Yup, all of it. What did you think? Edmond's cool. A survivor, you know? Even though he got his revenge, bad stuff still stuck with him. Yeah, you're a smart kid, Will. You just need to show up to class more. - I'm trying. - That's all any of us can do, right? - Zombies? - They're taking over the universe. Yeah, can't have that. [BEEPING] [CAR APPROACHES] [CAR DOOR OPENS AND THEN CLOSES] [CAMERA CLICKING] FINCH: Who are you? You're that cop. OFFICER: Word is the Russians are inside the Double Bs. We better get to them first. Is that you, Elias? [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] PETER: Seen these guys? We're looking for them. MAN: I don't know what you're talking about. [KNOCKING ON DOOR] PETER: Open up or we're coming in. - What do you want? - Hey, little man. - You all alone in there? - What's it look like? [CHUCKLES] Why don't you let me in so I can make sure? My papa taught me better than to let strangers inside our place. Especially punks. Is that right? That's right. He also said that Vory are supposed to show respect to one another. Your papa's a smart man. You be good, kid. [SIGHS] - Thanks, Will. - It's all good, Mr. Burton. You're the best teacher I've got. Charlie can you make it to the service stairs? I'll try. The painkiller sort of wore off. WILL: Why don't you just use the old entrance? They closed it down a few years ago. The stairs got all rotted. - Where is it? - It's down the hall. It's back the way that you came. Thanks. Come on. - I owe you one. - I'll see you tomorrow, Mr. Burton. Yeah. Yeah, we'll see you tomorrow. MAN 1: You. Did you guys get that hallway? MAN 2: Let's go. [BANGS ON DOOR] JOSEPH: Open up, we're coming in. Hello? Anyone home? Can't hide forever. Wherever you are, we're gonna find you. And then we're gonna end you. LASZLO: Come on, let's keep moving. [PEOPLE ARGUING IN DISTANCE] Looks like you got left behind. [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] IVAN: How can I help the New York Police Department tonight? Your son Peter is wanted for questioning in the murder of Benny D'Agostino. - Know where we might find him? - Who is this Benny? SZYMANSKl: Come on, Ivan. We heard Benny was the triggerman in your brother's murder. And we know the bodega run was payback. You seem to know a lot for someone who is here to ask me questions. Mr. Yogorov, we don't want any more bloodshed. My Peter was here working all day long. He's at a storage getting more wine for an event tonight. [SCOFFS] With all due respect, sir you may not be the best person to give your son an alibi. If you are here to accuse my Peter of something I suggest you come back with a warrant. If you can get one. There are no winners in this war, lvan. Only dead soldiers. Are you ready to lose your sons too? If I knew to what you were referring, I would say that this so-called war was started by this coward, Elias not me. He's the one who comes to my neighborhood stealing from me killing my people. Not the other way around. Now, will you excuse me? I have an event to host. [SPEAKING IN RUSSIAN] Please. - Mind if I borrow this for a moment? - Screw you. [PHONE BEEPING] It's a bad move to insult your hostage taker, Laszlo. Keep your mouth shut or I'll shut it permanently. Let's go. Finch, it's me. Get word to Carter that her bodega shooters are inside the Double Bs. FINCH [OVER PHONE]: Of course. And I'll make sure Detective Fusco meets you and the witness at the ferry. [LINE DISCONNECTS] You first. [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] LASZLO: Where we going now? REESE: Across the river. Come on, Laszlo, let's move. [KEYBOARD CLICKING] OFFICER [ON COMPUTER]: Just got a text. He's heading to Pier 11. Let's get over there to intercept him now. Nice collar, detective. You, too, Carter. Ever find out who called it in? I have an idea. [PHONE RINGING] Yeah, Fusco. I was starting to believe that we could trust you, detective. - I'm disappointed. - What you talking about? Elias' men are on their way to meet our friends at the ferry. - How'd they find out? - I was going to ask you. - You blaming me for this? - Then who told them? Listen, there's no way I would have FINCH: Detective, are you there? When we get you across the river, I'm gonna hand you off to my detective. You can trust him. Charlie, I need you to testify. CHARLIE: One thing I know for sure. After everything we went through last night I don't want to see these cretins running around my town ever again. - Thanks. - Mm-hm. - Ah, you ready to talk? - You ready to let me go? Peter, we've got you on camera. We've got witnesses that say you and your brother were shooting up the streets in Brighton Beach. No idea what you're talking about. It's a beautiful morning. I have to thank you, John. Tell you the truth, I didn't think I'd see another one. Elias killed your uncle. You, your father and your brother went to the bodega for revenge. You didn't know what Elias looked like so his lieutenant, Benny D'Agostino, was the next best thing. Now you're trying to rub out the witness, the guy who saw your father's face. [DOOR OPENS THEN CLOSES] We heard from a source that Elias was supposed to be at the bodega that night. - He was meeting Benny? - Yeah. But when we showed up Benny was all we saw. Found out what really went down after the owner called us. Said there was another guy. LASZLO: Hey, what are you? Corrupt P. D? Gun for hire? What kind of guy takes money to protect a scumbag like your boss here? You think he's gonna testify? After everything he's done? He's tearing this town apart. REESE: What are you talking about? You don't know who he is, do you? What he's capable of. PETER: You really don't get it, do you? You honestly think we'd go to all this trouble for a witness? [SCOFFS] You're in the middle of a situation that you don't even understand. CHARLIE: Don't make me shoot you, John. Drop your weapon and kick it to me, please. I thought you didn't like guns. You know, sometimes you have to do things you don't like. Like teaching history to the children of your enemies? Three years I watched them. Cleaning up after the children of those pigs. It's a good amount of time to learn what makes your enemies tick, what makes them weak. You know all the secrets you and your family tried to hide? I learned all about from your own flesh and blood. Your children hate you almost as much as I do. Tie yourself to the railing, John. Nice and tight. I know how capable you are of getting out of difficult situations. On your knees, please. You were meeting Benny at the bodega that day, weren't you? The shooters were looking for you. The benefits of no one knowing who you are or what you look like. That's gone now, I suppose. It's time to evolve. I'm ready for the next step. [GUN COCKS] Go ahead. I'd rather die than see you running my city. You know what Benny said before he died? He said, "Veni, vidi, vici." I came. I saw. I won. He said your almighty Bratva was already crumbling. He said we had already won. This is for Benny. Elias, if you kill him [SCREAMS] I'm not gonna kill him. Just gonna send a message. [GROANING] You tell your papa, Laszlo, if he gets out of town tonight, I'll let him live. Brighton Beach belongs to me now. I thought about killing you, John. But I realized that that would seem ungrateful. Besides, how do you take the life of someone so talented? I could really use a guy like you in my organization. I wish you luck, John. If you stay out of my way, I'll stay out of yours. What if I don't? Then we'll meet again under less pleasant circumstances. - You believe me now? - I'm sorry, detective. Nice to see you, Lionel. Your suspect is tied to the railing. Tell him, "you're welcome." Couldn't have known about Charlie. The Machine found a man who was targeted for death. We just didn't know that he was also a killer. - It's my fault he's out there, Finch. - It's not yours alone. We just saved a man whose only goal in life is revenge. He spent years studying his enemies through their own children. John, we have limited information. We knew when we began this that we might make mistakes. But we have to go now. We have more people to help, more numbers. How many of those numbers will come up because we saved one man's life? OFFICER: Boss. It's done. No, it's just beginning. [SPEAKS IN LATIN]
FINCH: You are being watched. The government has a secret system. A machine that spies on you every hour of every day. I know because I built it. I designed the machine to detect acts of terror, but it sees everything. Violent crimes involving ordinary people. People like you. Crimes the government considered irrelevant. They wouldn't act, so I decided I would. But I needed a partner. Someone with the skills to intervene. Hunted by the authorities, we work in secret. You will never find us. But victim or perpetrator, if your number's up, we'll find you. MAN 1 [OVER PHONE]: He's on his way there now. What do we assume he knows? MAN 2 [OVER PHONE]: Assume he knows everything. WOMAN [OVER PA]: All luggage and parcels must be attended at all times. Any items left unattended will be removed by and subject to search by the MTA police. Thank you for your cooperation. MAN [OVER PA]: Final boarding call for the Eastbound Express, Track 18. Final boarding call, Eastbound Express, Track 18, all aboard. No, thanks, I don't drink coffee. Sencha green tea. One sugar. FINCH: You've been paying attention. Relax, Finch. It's just tea. I haven't guessed your favorite color yet. New number. Wallace Negel. Born in Germany, 1946. Immigrated to the U.S. In 1980. Worked in international export, good credit, perfect taxes. - Wait a minute, are these dates right? - You noticed. Negel hasn't made a single electronic transaction in his own name since December of 1987. So where's he been for 24 years? And why is he back? REESE: I don't think there is a Negel. Foreign background, boring life, a job involving travel. Spycraft 101. This is an alias. I've used dozens of them. I think Negel is a cover. So where do we start? Shortly before he disappeared in 1987 Negel purchased a cemetery plot in the Bronx. I've checked, it's still there. [KEYBOARD CLICKING] Why does a person who doesn't exist need a cemetery plot? Right? [COMPUTER BEEPS] - Might be worth a look. - Hmm. Where are you going? If we're dealing with a spy from the 1980s I know of someone who can provide us with the kind of pre-digital information we need. FINCH: Things I can't find on computers. All first editions. The best available on German history. The entire span of the Cold War would do it, but specifically the 1980s. And I'll be needing something more precise than books. [CHUCKLES] I'm not sure what you mean. How about the Soviet submarine schematics that you sold back to Russian intelligence? You registered that income with IRS, FBI? Be hard to run this store from prison, don't you think? REESE: Row 18, plot 20 Hmm. - What was the name? - Wallace Negel. Yeah. Before the country reunified East Germany was the greatest surveillance state the world has seen. The Stasi knew everything. I've read about them. I'm a sucker for surveillance. They had millions of hours of wiretaps. Sweat and body-odor samples. I just need a name to go with an alias. Real name Ulrich Kohl. Part of an espionage team. Oh, I've read about the Stasi teams. Kohl's unit went around the world. In and out of Western Europe, the U.S. That's why he needed American papers. The team hunted down defectors and neutralized them before they could talk. Neutralized. Where guys like him went, people died. Um, how did you know about the submarine schematics? Told you. I'm a sucker for surveillance. Looks like Kohl was in Europe when the Wall fell. Western authorities were hunting him, so he ran to hide in the Soviet Union. His wife, Anja, a secretary at Stasi headquarters, ran with him. But she was killed in a car accident shortly after. That was in 1987. By '89, East Germany has collapsed, the Stasi no longer exists and Kohl was never heard from again. Well, he's here now. Negel's cemetery plot? It was a buried stash kit. He dug it up a few hours ago. What was in it? If it was anything like the ones I used to bury, IDs, weapons. And definitely money. So it seems Kohl the spy is back. [KNOCKING ON DOOR] Hauffe? Sorry? [SIGHS] Can I help you? [IN GERMAN] It can't be you. [GRUNTS] We have something to discuss. [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] WOMAN [ON MONITOR]: You're the new guy, right? Let's go somewhere private so we can talk. You're Stanton and I'm No. You're not. The ID NCS gave you didn't pass muster, so you're nobody. Which means I get to name you. Wilson, maybe. No. - You should have a drink. - I don't drink when I'm working. No? Well, start. You Tier 1 boys are all the same. Tense. Out here, tense gets us killed. In your old job, you were behind enemy lines for six, 12 months? In this job, you never go back because there is no line to cross back over. Never was. Understand? So you may as well get comfortable. When you were in transit did you see any old friends? No. Why are you asking? We know about the ex-girlfriend. Like I told you, you never go back. [DOOR OPENS] [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] The coin Kohl dropped was an East German mark. They've been out of circulation everywhere since 1990. But I found a rare coin exchange in the city where a whole set of marks was sold this morning. REESE [OVER PHONE]: Let me guess, the seller was Ulrich Kohl. Correct. He used the store's phone, waited for an answer, hung up I traced the call to that address in the West Village. Apartment 4A. REESE: Finch, we're too late. Kohl called to make sure he was home. He was interrogated. I'm going through more of these records. Kohl was part of a four-man team. He shared trigger duties with a team leader named Steiller. They were backed up by a document forger named Wernick [FAX MACHINE BEEPS] ah, and they reported to a case officer named Hauffe for orders. So who's this dead guy? The apartment is leased to Andrew Honem. An unmarried, retired architect. Kohl's job was killing defectors. Sounds like this guy might've been one. Hang on, Finch. Half the intelligence services in the world were tracking these guys at one point. But they were ghosts. Untraceable. Finch, what was the case officer's name again? Hauffe. This dead guy was Hauffe. Kohl killed his Stasi teammate. MAN: And he will kill again. I don't know who you are or how you know to be here. But this is just the beginning. Then this is gonna be a long day. [BOTH GRUNTING] Finch, I got company. BND. German intelligence. He seemed to know what went down here. He also seemed sure Kohl would kill again. [PHONE RINGING] Detective Fusco. REESE [OVER PHONE]: Anonymous tip for you, Lionel. - Look, you gotta stop calling me here. - Homicide in the West Village. The shooter might have others planned today. I left you a care package at the scene. And I need you to find out whatever he knows. Well, I can't till someone calls in a crime. - You'll get a call. Shots fired. - Were there shots fired? There were now. FINCH [OVER PHONE]: Hauffe's dead. Who's next on Kohl's hit list? REESE [OVER PHONE]: I took an encrypted phone from that German agent. Every text is blocked except for the one they were reading. Julian Werner. FINCH: Werner is a Wall Street lawyer. And Werner is really Wernick. The forger. Kohl's entire team is living under aliases in New York. The perfect place to disappear, right, Finch? These people were his teammates. Why would he be hunting them two decades later? Kohl vanishes without a trace and his teammates end up living cushy lives in New York. This could be revenge for something. Maybe more than we know. - The wife's death? - Car crash? She died in '87, the same year he disappeared. And I know a staged accident when I see it. We need to get to Wernick before Kohl does. I thought you were dead. Still with a needle, I see. What is it coated with? Something fast. - It's the least I could do for a colleague. - How long have I got? Long enough. Where is your accent, Hauptmann? We were advised to blend in America. I saw Hauffe this morning. He was a good case officer. He kept information on you all these years. You remember my Anja? FINCH [OVER PHONE]: I called Werner's assistant. He has lunch at the same place every day. REESE [OVER PHONE]: On my way. I remember. I didn't know they would go after her too. But killing me won't bring her back, Ulrich. I told her I would keep her safe. What happened to you, Ulrich? I paid for my sins. For yours. For the team. The people who caught me kept me in a hole. But I never stopped thinking. Planning. It was long ago. I let myself forget. I did not have that luxury. It was wrong, what we did. You'll go after Steiller next? Then be at peace, my old friend. [WERNICK GRUNTS THEN CROWD GASPS] [CROWD CHATTERING] MAN: Call 911! WOMAN 1: Pardon me. WOMAN 2: Excuse me. OFFICER: I need an ambulance at 4319th Street. Craftbar cafe. Ma'am, stand back, please. [SPEAKING INDISTINCTLY] PARAMEDIC 1: Weak pulse, but tachycardic. BP is 70/30. Shallow respiration, internal asphyxia, convulsions. Guy's having a seizure. [ALL SPEAKING INDISTINCTLY] PARAMEDIC 2: What's going? Hey. [SIREN WAILING] REESE: You can't breathe. You have foam in your nose and your mouth. It's hydrocyanic acid. They're gonna find us in four minutes. I can save you, but you need to talk. What did Kohl come for? Why is he after all of you? Kohl was killing their informants. The Americans wanted him gone. REESE: So you gave them Kohl? They offered us a new life. We traded Ulrich. You were his team. His friends. A soldier deserves better. I give you these and you live. What happened after you defected? They told us Kohl ran to the Soviets. He and Anja. The Americans went for him. They got her too. The car accident? Ugh, yes. Who will Kohl go after next? Ste Steiller. He defected with the rest of you? Hey, what's his alias? REESE: I kept the lawyer alive, but Kohl's not done yet. Kohl's team betrayed him and it got his wife killed. They preserved themselves over him. - This is as personal as it gets. - So where's Steiller? Finch, I saw the exact same pin in Hauffe's apartment. The Volks American Society is an organization for New York citizens of German heritage. When the team defected, they wouldn't have been allowed to contact each other. A German organization would give all three a chance to meet in public. So if Hauffe and Wernick were members Then Steiller would've been too. [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] There were two crime scenes. One in the West Village, then Wall Street. The same senior citizen wearing a gray suit was seen fleeing both locations. Wall Street. That's where the ambulance was jacked earlier, right? It sure was. Read the description of who jacked it? My guy? How's he involved in this? This guy was unconscious at the first scene. Nice bruises. He say anything yet? Like, who kicked his ass sideways? [CHUCKLES] Yeah. Two words: Phone call. Everything else is in German. [DOOR OPENS] Either of these guys look familiar to you? [DOOR CLOSES] We know you're German intel. We know a lot. If that's all you know, polizei, then you don't know very much. Tell me about your homicidal geriatric. [SPEAKS IN GERMAN] Two crimes. A very dangerous man at work, and one agent trying to stop a killer? It'd be a shame if we Polizei couldn't help. His name is Kohl. He is a prisoner. Arrested in an operation between my government and yours 24 years ago. He had become old, feeble, they thought. The order was given to transfer him to a minimum security facility. I'm guessing he escaped. He's smart. And lethal. And he killed Germans for years. There is nothing more important than putting him back. Why not involve U.S. Authorities? He was jailed without trial. Kohl isn't supposed to exist. No one wants an international incident. You aren't supposed to be operating on U.S. Soil. Where he goes, people will keep dying. Then help us. We want the same thing. MAN: Don't say another word - You can't be in here. This interview is over. I am from the German Consulate. And this is from the U.S. State Department. Orders to extradite him back to Germany immediately. The Volks American website wasn't even using an open SSH secure proxy. - I cloned their login form in seconds. REESE [OVER PHONE]: Finch. The point? I found the complete membership roster. Hauffe and Wernick are both on it. I'm running background checks on the members. Here. Michael Stegans. A construction foreman from Newark. Credit scores only go back to 1988. - If the pattern follows - Then Stegans is really Steiller. He's running a construction site in Brooklyn. I have his cell phone. [PHONE DIALING] [PHONE RINGS] Hello? Mr. Steiller? I'm sorry, uh, uh, I think you have the wrong number. There's no time for games. You need to listen. Do you remember Ulrich Kohl? He remembers you. Just like he remembered all his old Stasi colleagues. He's on his way. You're speaking of a dead man. I knew this day would come. You were too good. KOHL [OVER PHONE]: I learned from the best. I learned from you. You were my friend. You knew me. You knew my wife. She trusted you as much as I did. You changed, Ulrich. I watched what the missions did to you. The darkness in your eyes. You believed in the killing. You trained me. You made me what I was. I believed in my country, I believed in you. STEILLER: We could not save you. KOHL: So you left Anja and me to the hounds? For some money and an apartment in New York City? I had to get out. I was strong. I survived. What they did to Anja, though you will pay for that. Wait. Wait, Ulrich. There is something you don't know. I was the only one who knew. [RINGING] Hello? Anja is alive? STEILLER: She found me a few years after we all defected. She was more afraid of you than anyone, Ulrich. So you see, your revenge was all for nothing. [BOTH GRUNTING] Finch, we need to find Anja. I think Kohl just added her to his list. FINCH [OVER PHONE]: The car accident was faked. She was his wife. She betrayed him. REESE [OVER PHONE]: To a man like Kohl, that makes her just as much a target. CARTER: We got a killer out there and our best lead is getting deported. You still got your vigilante looking. That's not bad news. You can't send a killer to catch a killer. Your guy still gets results. [PHONE BEEPS] They'll take side streets to the airport. Standard procedure. Tell Fusco to send the GPS tracker number for the consulate car. FINCH: I found their position, Mr. Reese. But how do you intend to stop them? Mr. Reese, I'm highly uncomfortable being here. I'm highly uncomfortable having you here. But I need a spotter. - Range it. - I don't know, 500 yards? REESE: Six. FINCH: Forty-five-degree oblique wind. Three-quarter value wind speed. - Very impressive, Finch. - What if you miss? REESE: I wouldn't know. Never have. [TIRES SCREECHING] Stop. We have diplomatic immunity. - I'm not a diplomat. - Unh! Who are you? I'm the guy who still has time to save Anja Kohl. Now, I know she's alive. - I need to know where. - This man has nothing to say. - Any communication would violate - There's nothing I can do. Save her if you can. [MAN GRUNTS] [CAR DOOR OPENS] [ENGINE STARTS] Anna Klein. An address in Morningside Heights. It's Anja. [TIRES SCREECH] Anja isn't here, Kohl. She's safe, where you can't get to her. That's a Welrod, isn't it? Only 73 decibels when fired. But it won't stop me before I get to you. And I lose my patience when I get shot. [SPEAKS IN GERMAN] What's your plan, Kohl? Hmm? You gonna kill her too? Your own wife? You don't have a plan, do you? [GRUNTING] Your external carotid arteries: Obstruct both [REESE GRUNTS] and you wake up with quite a headache. Ulrich? It can't be. - He's coming for me, isn't he? - Yes. What's important is getting you into police custody. - There's a detective at the precinct - Wait. We can't go yet. - It's safe. I promise. - Not yet. I need to make a phone call. KOHL: The camera. Extraordinary. The Stasi would've killed for this technology. [SPEAKS IN GERMAN] When you travel, you pick up things. Skills. Items. They all laughed at me when I learned to use these needles. They didn't laugh for long. I was, uh, bagged by an insurgent patrol when I was in Kandahar. They used electricity on me. Sixteen hours. All they wanted was my name. I don't care for your name. The ulnar nerve is the largest nerve in the human body that is unprotected. It goes from the shoulder to the fingernail beds. Where it passes through the elbow it's known as the funny bone. [GRUNTS] [SPEAKS IN GERMAN] STANTON: Relax, we're on the same team. Besides, heh, where would I hide a gun in this dress? You're Stanton, right? Who's this? I haven't decided yet. - Miller said you like bourbon. MAN 1: You know what they drink here? Plum brandy. A shame about Miller. What happened to him? [CORK POPS] Wasn't getting the job done. Word came down. Time to take the gloves off. So, what can we do for you? We're looking into reports that Alim Assir was in country last week possibly to secure financing. We sent all of our intel in the pouch to Langley last week. And Assir made it out of the country safely two days ago. We wanna know how. MAN 2: That's also in our intel. Like we said, he must've paid customs a fortune. And how much did he pay you? [CHUCKLES] Kidding, heh. Like I said, you boys are too tense. Here's to taking the gloves off. [GUNSHOT THEN MAN 1 GRUNTS] [MAN 2 GRUNTS] You've gotta be kidding me. They didn't get very far, did they? Thank you. Remember our friend the German agent, and his escort to JFK? Apparently, a guy in a suit shot them off the road with a high-caliber weapon. I'm going to the scene. See if my guy left a trail that leads to Kohl. [PHONE RINGS] - Detective Fusco. - I need your help. Look, first him, now you? You guys just can't ring me like I'm a bellhop. Our friend went after your perpetrator, haven't heard from him. This man may be more dangerous than we anticipated. I need you to check I'm convincing Carter your boy is not a problem. - You want me to walk off the job? - Figure something out. It's urgent. I'm sending you an address. [SIGHS] Not getting a response? I know you don't know me, but I'm someone who can help. You're gonna have to kill me, Kohl. Nobody enjoys taking life. Killing is, um, what I was good at. I noticed. That hydrogen cyanide that you used on Wernick you didn't bring that into the country. You bought that here and mixed it yourself, didn't you? You're familiar with poisons? I've had some experience. I had taken lives, positioned on the Wall with a rifle. Then the Stasi came calling. They said, "Your country needs you." They always say that. Hmm. For my country, I left my country and killed wherever they sent me. For that, I was called a monster. Even the blackest heart still beats. I was you, Kohl. Revenge won't help. Twenty-four years they kept me buried me in that hellhole. I thought about nothing but today. What about tomorrow? I have to see her. My Anja. The brachial plexus is a network of nerves Ulrich was always gone for work. But when he was with me, he loved me. And I loved him. I was the wife of a spy. I knew he couldn't talk about what he did. Then one day he came home and said the Stasi had turned on him. So then you fled to the Soviet Union? He thought it was still safe there. We traveled separately. That's when the Americans found me. Then they showed me photos. Of all the assassinations? [ANJA WHIMPERS] I told myself that he had lied first. So much death. How could he? The Americans staged the car accident to keep me safe. Ulrich believed I was dead, but I started a new life. [SIGHS] This could take all night, unh. She has my mother's eyes. Don't do anything stupid, Ulrich. You hid this? Her name is Marie. You're not a monster to her yet. It's too late for you and me, but she could have a normal life. [PAPER RUSTLING] KOHL: How could she keep this from me? Anja? How could she take? How could they take this girl from me? That girl could have a chance. Just leave her be. As one professional to another, I respect what you have tried to do. But I can't have you following me. Wouldn't worry. You aren't going anywhere. Fusco, untie me. Where do you think he's going? To find his daughter. MARIE: Okay, it's late. Good night. GIRL: See you later. Bye, you guys. Uh, have fun. Call you tomorrow. [PHONE BEEPS] Excuse me, miss, can you help me? I'm looking for Lerner Hall. Oh, yeah. Sure, um You need to call your mother. ANJA [OVER PHONE]: Marie? MARIE [OVER PHONE]: There's a man here. He wants to talk to you. FINCH [OVER PHONE]: Kohl wants to meet in the park. Said he won't hurt the girl if his wife came alone. REESE [OVER PHONE]: She's not going anywhere alone. MARIE: Please don't hurt me. KOHL: I just need to speak to your mother. And then this will all be over. How do you know her? It was in the past. I knew her and your father. My father? Did your mother tell you about him? He was a soldier in Germany before she moved here. He was a brave man. He died before I was born. He died a hero. A hero? After the Berlin Wall fell, he helped her get out. He helped her get free, so she and I could start a life here. Did you know my father? I did. Once. OFFICER [OVER RADIO]: All units be advised. Possible abduction in the vicinity of Central Park. Perpetrator male, age 60 plus, victim female, age 23. I'm very sorry about this. More sorry than you'll ever know. Where's your friend? He's right here. Where you been? We got an anonymous call. Our shooter's in the park? And if he's here, I got a feeling my vigilante is here too. FUSCO: Think we'll get them both? - The two of you go with him. FUSCO: Come on. Why? Why did you go? I found out my husband wasn't the man I married. He was a killer. I was trapped and pregnant. I thought I knew him. But they told me he had become a monster. Mom? Who is this man? I was afraid of the person you had become. Can you forgive me for the person I was? I had to see your face. To see both of your faces. You told her about her father? That he was a hero. That he saved you? Without him, we wouldn't have had this life. Either of us. Part of me has been with you always. [GASPS] Ulrich. [GUNSHOT] This is Carter, report. Who has a 20 on that shot? [KOHL GRUNTING] ANJA: Are you all right? [ANJA CRYING] Finch, get them out of here. You were right to fear me. You were right. Empty. [REESE SIGHS] I wouldn't have hurt her. I never had a tomorrow. [CHUCKLES] How did you know I'd shoot? You are a soldier, like me. They took everything I had. But part of me survived. It was her. [EXHALES] OFFICER 1 [OVER RADIO]: All units. Located source of that shot. Shooter male, down. Dead. OFFICER 2: Bravo Team Leader, report in. Who do you think it was, Carter? [OFFICERS SPEAKING INDISTINCTLY] Harper. No, not a Harper. I need you to dispose of this, and them. You didn't even question them. We don't have time for questions, only answers. These men took a bribe to let a mass murderer escape. How do we know it was them? Anonymous source. Very reliable. You need to know this is right. I'll tell you one last time before it gets complicated: This is right. The threat is real. Your country needs you. No teeth, no fingertips. One last thing you don't have any old friends. You see them you don't know them. We're walking in the dark here, you understand? I think I've got it. You'll be FINCH: Mr. Reese. After all that, he goes in the ground under a name that isn't even his. German government will sweep the whole thing under the rug. REESE: Ulrich Kohl never existed. I always thought I'd die in a place that didn't know my name. You think anyone will care for our names? After we're dead. I thought we already were.
FINCH: You are being watched. The government has a secret system. A machine that spies on you every hour of every day. I know because I built it. I designed the machine to detect acts of terror, but it sees everything. Violent crimes involving ordinary people. People like you. Crimes the government considered irrelevant. They wouldn't act, so I decided I would. But I needed a partner. Someone with the skills to intervene. Hunted by the authorities, we work in secret. You will never find us. But victim or perpetrator, if your number's up, we'll find you. [CHATTERING OVER MONITOR] [YUSUF GRUNTS] HARRIS: He's all yours. I already told the other Americans, I deliver fruits and vegetables. You deliver explosives for al Qaeda. Your cell is responsible for a suicide bomb that killed three U.S. Soldiers in Fallujah. You should tell me the location of the remainder of those explosives. Talk to me or else you're gonna have to talk to my boss. Believe me when I tell you, you don't wanna talk to my boss. All right. CARTER: Hello, Yusuf. ELIAS [OVER PHONE]: Getting too close. Enough already. She goes today. But it's gotta be clean. VALENTINO: Can't keep coming in here I gotta go. Detective Carter, Mrs. Kovach is here to bail out her husband. - Ugh, again? - Figured maybe you could talk to her. CARTER: Thanks. I work Homicide, Mrs. Kovach. Okay? I'm the one who has to investigate when your husband finally beats you to death. Look, every time you tell us it was an accident you're strengthening the story he's gonna use to get out of it. That you were clumsy, accident-prone. Do you hear me? The stairs. I fell down the stairs. If he puts his hands on you again, call me. Sorry, I have to go. FUSCO: I don't know why you bother. You can't save them all. That's a homicide waiting to happen. Figured I'd try to stop one for a change. DNA came back on the shooter you winged a couple weeks ago the guy who took a shot at you. Half the DNA matched Marlene Elias. The other half, Don Moretti. CARTER: Carl Elias, the bastard son you left to rot in the system after you murdered his mother almost 40 years ago. Your mistress. Told you before, sweetheart. I ain't the father of nobody by that name. DNA says otherwise, Don. You're a perfect match. And guess what. Your son's all grown up now. Just a few of his recent victims: Retired detective Bernie Sullivan. Your old capo Vincent DeLuca. What is this? What do I care? I'm gonna die an old man in here. Maybe sooner than you think. You killed his mother, left him to the wolves. What do you think he's gonna do to you? I wouldn't expect any Father's Day cards. If you help me, I can offer you protective custody. Who do you think you're talking to? You don't get it. Elias can get to you anywhere. He can find someone you know, turn them on you. And you know what? It's not a question of if, but when. Telling me this guy already took out a cop took a shot at you because you got too close and you came here to warn me? Heh. Consider it a courtesy call. There a task force going after this Elias? - Or is it just you, detective? - What is that supposed to mean? Way it looks from my side of the fence, you're all alone. Sounds to me like maybe he's coming after you. MAN [OVER RADIO]: All units respond. Shooting at 168th and Audubon. CARTER: I came as soon as I heard the description. FUSCO: Got a young African-American male gunned down on his way home. I got 9 mm casings all over the curb. Looks like it was a drive-by. CARTER: Any witnesses see the car? This neighborhood? You're kidding, right? [CARTER SIGHS] - Ronnie Middleton. - You knew this kid? He witnessed a shooting six months ago up in the Bronx. ID'd the shooter, a neighborhood thug, Hector Alvarez. - This kid was a snitch? - Yeah. He got cold feet, though. Recanted his testimony. DA dropped the case. Looks like Hector found him. He won't get away with it again. Was Ronnie carrying? Just a, uh, cell phone and that soda bottle. CARTER: Mariquitas cola. - Mexican soda. - They don't sell that everywhere. I think I know a place that does. - And I know somebody saw something. - Getting them to talk is another matter. I'm sure you'll charm something out of them, Fusco. We've been working together for a while now. My friends call me Lionel. You got a first name? Sure. Detective. FUSCO: My name is Detective Fusco with the N.Y.P.D. If anyone has seen or heard anything pertaining to what happened here tonight, you can call me at I already have your card, Lionel. - What the hell are you doing here? - Just checking in. What happened here? Lead poisoning. It's going around the neighborhood. - N.Y.P.D., Mr - Castillo. Um, I'm closed for the night. You see what happened out here tonight? I was busy in the back. Uh, I didn't hear anything till the police showed up. See, I find that hard to believe, Mr. Castillo. After that young man bought this Mariquitas soda from your store he walked out and got shot like a dog in the street. He bought the soda, he left the store. I heard the shots, but I didn't see anything. So you heard shots, you didn't look out, see a car take off? Please. Not here. I understand. Why don't you come down to the precinct tomorrow? Give a statement, just what you saw. Okay, I'll come down tomorrow. FINCH [OVER PHONE]: Mr. Reese, where have you been? We've got another number. If you're gonna tell me Ronnie Middleton, you're a little late, Finch. - Kid's already gone. - What? Where are you? At the scene of a homicide wondering how the machine can see one and miss another. I'm sorry, Mr. Reese. The machine detects acts of premeditation. And I'm afraid we've got a big problem with the one it's seeing right now. Whose number came up? A mutual friend of ours. Detective Carter. [CHATTERING OVER MONITOR] Wanna tell me where you were last night? Was about to ask you the same thing. Working a new case. Thank you. And I don't have the curfew. You weren't home when I called and you didn't answer your cell. I was only a half an hour late. Yeah. You're staying with Grandma till I'm off this case. Hey, Taylor. [GIRLS CHUCKLE] So I saw you got that, uh, homecoming dance coming up Friday. You gonna go? It must be tough being a freshman, all the girls going out with older guys. I already asked somebody. - Really? Well, I want to meet her. - I'm gonna be late for school. I'm taking you. I have time. Stay. I thought I charged this thing. TAYLOR: After you. - Thank you. Raised you well. Did you know she had a son? FINCH: Didn't know you cared. No dad in the picture for some time. FINCH: You've been looking into the detective, Mr. Reese? REESE: It pays to know the person coming after you, Finch. Okay, they're leaving now. You'd better hurry up. - Almost got it. - Forget it. Get out of there now. Do we have picture? And a GPS tracker. Nice work, Harold. We need eyes and ears on her 24/7, even inside the precinct. REESE: Finch, Carter's going right into Hector's shop. FINCH: Primary suspect in the Ronnie Middleton shooting. How's the car business, Hector? - You say that like you really care. - Care about where you were last night. Go ahead, spin that yarn, dazzle me. Sorry, I'm a domesticated man. I was back with my old lady watching some show. Ask her. Of course. Always with the loyal alibi. Monica, he's handsome, but you can do better. You got some huevos coming down here all alone. So that wasn't your muscle car, took a detour into Washington Heights last night? - No, I hear it's dangerous there. I know y'all heard what happened to Ronnie Middleton. I heard he ate a bullet that didn't agree with him. Nice shop, nice tools. Doing well for yourself, Hector. Make all this money fixing up old cars? I got a record. I gotta work for myself. This is a nice ride. Mind if I check it out? Sure as hell do. You're gonna need a warrant for that. You messed up taking that kid out, Hector. It's a shame what happened to that kid, even if he was a punk-ass snitch. You won't get away with it again. I will find a way to bring you down. Good luck with that warrant, detective. Didn't know you collected dolls, Finch. As you know, I collect rare books, Mr. Reese, 180-gram vinyl and a Xerox Alto when I can find one. - This doll is for Detective Fusco. - Fusco's into dolls? He is now, if we want to keep eyes on Detective Carter. I'll make sure it lands on his desk. I've been looking into our new number. Carter, Detective First Grade, Homicide Task Force. Single mom, teenage son. Served as an Army interrogator. Passed the bar in '04, gave up to go back on the force. - It's impressive, Mr. Reese. - Impressive lady, honest to a fault. Which means she made a lot of enemies both in the criminal world and in her own department. I've narrowed the list of possible suspects to a little over 300 or so. Day in the life of a detective. Any more immediate threats? Hector Alvarez. Indicted for homicide on a case she worked six months ago till the charges were dropped. Edward Kovach, repeat felon spouse abuser whose wife she's taken a keen interest in protecting. And then there's Elias, ruthless killer, organized crime boss who's already taken a shot at her. She's a walking target. Gonna have to keep her in sight at all times. You have to be careful. Get too close, you risk getting caught. That's a chance I gotta take. - Am I supposed to let her catch a bullet? - What will you do if she catches you? Oh, I'm sure you'll figure something out, Harold. What the hell? [CELL PHONE RINGING] Detective Fusco. Happy birthday, Lionel. Thanks, but no thanks. It's not my birthday. What are you trying to tell me? Just put it on your desk and face it towards Carter. Why? REESE: Because there's a camera inside and we need to know everyone she's talking to. You know something I don't? - She in trouble? REESE: You tell me. Ask around with some of your corrupt pals inside the force. - What's going on? What do you need? - To find who wants to take Carter out. I can't be involved in something like that. No, Lionel, just turn the camera towards her desk. [FUSCO SIGHS] Nice doll. Yeah, my, uh, son gave it to me. How'd it go with the old don? Tried to reach out, see what he knew about his biological son. - Elias, huh? - Old man just shut me down. Seems to think every cop is dirty. Ugh, yeah, maybe back in his day. That bodega owner Castillo come in yet? - Not that I know of. - Hmm. Gonna have to pay him another visit. - You coming? - No, you know what? You go ahead. Uh, I got a thing. I'll catch up with you later, okay? Okay. [POLICE SIREN WAILING] BC: Whoa, whoa, whoa! - I ain't done nothing! - Hands where I can see. Got any needles? Anything that's gonna stick me? BC: This is a violation of my civil liberties. REESE [OVER PHONE]: Finch, I don't like the looks of this. BC: Bitch, you better get your hands off me. CARTER: Shut up and get your head down. Ha, ha. Thanks for making it look good, detective. Think I tweaked my wrist. That was a little too theatrical, Bottlecap. Wait a minute, Reese. I think she knows him. CARTER: Haven't seen you in a while. - All for show. Must be one of her CI's. That's because after I last got popped, I used my time to rehabilitate myself. You got clean? - Come on now. - Uh, I'm serious. These pipes are junk-free. But I can always use some scratch, you know what I'm saying? I need to know what you've heard about the new guy, Elias. I've been hearing that name up and coming a lot. I never seen him, but I hear he's a man not to be trifled with. You know anything about that shooting last night over on 168th and Audubon? Drive-by, right? I know the block, just not the players. You ever hear the name Hector Alvarez come up or see him cruise the block in this GTO? I didn't see the car or hear nobody talk about Hector but I can ask around. Good looking out, BC. If you get anything back on, um, Hector or Elias there's more where that came from. [CHATTERING OVER MONITOR] FUSCO: Hey, captain. - Welcome back, detective. Didn't think you'd grace us with your presence again once you spent time with the perfumed folk downtown. - Ha, ha. - How'd a half-wit like you pull that off? Guess the half-wit's still got some juice, huh, captain? [LYNCH CHUCKLES] They got me working with Detective Carter and I'm starting to hear some things. - Yeah? Like what? Maybe she's not so well-liked by a, uh, certain element. Listen, Lionel. Things are going back to the way they used to be. Used to be? Thing about organized crime? It was organized. Things worked. The trains ran on time. This new guy? He knows the rules. New guy. You mean Elias. Runs a tight ship. Low profile. Not like these cutthroat Russian idiots. He knows who to grease. All the way up to City Hall. Look, the economy's in the toilet. Detective Carter doesn't understand the rules. She's bad for business. - What'd she do? - Sniffing around, trying to build a case. She's gunning for Elias. She's gotta go. - It's a tricky business getting rid of a cop. - Went through proper back channels up the chain of command. Permission granted. It's just gotta look clean. Clean? You mean like in the line of duty? I'm starting to feel caught in the middle here, captain. I'd keep my distance if I were you. [CHATTERING OVER MONITOR] [CARTER SIGHS] You didn't come down to the precinct like you told me you would, Mr. Castillo. I got no help today. I'm a very busy man. Did you see this car before or after the shooting? You didn't tell me the guy they killed was a witness to another shooting. He decided not to testify. Didn't save him. If you think that's gonna convince me to, it's not helping. Point is, if Hector Alvarez thinks you saw him shoot someone he's gonna come after you too. - Please. I have a family. - Exactly. If you help me, I can protect you and your family. If you don't, he could still come after you. REESE: What's the word, Lionel? Did some checking around. Carter's name came up and not in a good way. Elias wants her gone today. Killing a cop brings a lot of heat. Which is why they'll make it look clean. He could set up a patsy or pay someone off on a case she's working. All I know is every door Carter walks through could have a bullet behind it. CARTER: Did you see this guy in your store last night? Please, that's all I need. I saw him earlier. He's been in my store before to buy condoms, beer. What does it matter? I won't give you a statement. - Can you please leave my store? - Okay, okay. Thank you. [HECTOR WHISTLES] HECTOR: Oh, sorry, detective. I didn't realize that was you from behind. - Lot of fine girls out today. - Keep it moving, lover boy. HECTOR: Gotta be careful on this block. I heard some kid got popped last night. You got any kids, detective? Stay off this block. I see this car roll by one more time, I'm gonna impound it. I'll be seeing you around, Mr. Castillo. [MIMICS GUN SHOT] Get out of here. Let's go. [CHATTERING OVER MONITOR] REESE [OVER PHONE]: Elias wants Carter gone. Possible he'll use someone with motive. A suspect in one of her cases. - Carter's at a bar. FINCH: I thought she was on duty. With this many people after her, I'd be inclined to pick up the tab. CARTER: Tell me, Eddie. What kind of degenerate does that to his wife? REESE: Carter's paying Kovach a visit. Why is a Homicide detective intervening in a domestic case? REESE: Maybe she's like us. Trying to prevent something bad from happening. What happens between a man and his woman behind closed doors is none of your business. Can't stop you from boozing your life away. But you go home and put your hands on your wife, I'm coming after you. You come for me, and I will exercise my second amendment rights. And I promise you I got a pretty big gun. Man as angry and bitter as you are? I got a feeling it ain't that big, Eddie. I gotta admit, Finch, I sure like her style. I think we got a new front-runner. CARTER: Mark Thomson Ricky Lopez Joseph McNally. All were killed. From a suicide vest you helped transport. They had families. People that loved them. I'm sorry for those soldiers. But I deliver vegetables. I know you're working with al Qaeda, Yusuf because I have photos here of you loading vests into your truck. Now, you gonna tell me all these photos of you are fake, hmm? Show me where the other suicide vests are hidden, Yusuf. Point to the location. Do you know what they will do if they find out that I helped you? They will kill my wife. They will kill my son. I would rather you just kill me now. [CHATTERING OVER MONITOR] Carter, is that the DOA's phone? Ronnie Middleton? Ugh, his mother hasn't even come to the morgue. This kid was all alone. He deserved better. So far, I've got nothing on Hector. Analyst from the Real Time Crime Center sent footage from some cameras around Bodega La Nueva. - Some? There's more cameras than this? - Mayor wants one on every corner. Wow, no wonder I feel like I'm being watched. I figured Hector's GTO had to pass through this intersection. But nothing, nada. Maybe he didn't drive. Maybe he walked. Castillo said he came into his market a couple times to purchase some booze and Trojans. - So? - His girlfriend lives in the Bronx too. Why would he have to go 25 blocks downtown for condoms? Because Don Juan's got a little chickie on the side. Hector was on foot. Maybe he walked from her apartment to the market. And that's where Hector bumped into Ronnie. We find this chica, we might have a new witness. [CELL PHONE RINGS] I'm gonna make some calls. - I gotta go. You can thank me later. - Heh. - What, you miss me already? - You're a hard man to miss, Lionel. FUSCO: This Carter situation has got you worried. What, you gonna follow her around from now on? I'm not. You are. I've got some business to take care of. - Don't let her get into any trouble. FUSCO: Carter's gunning for you. She'll probably catch you. Why are you trying to protect her? She's a good cop. Good person. Hell, you should try it sometime. Thanks. Look, I'm just saying, if she wasn't around it would solve a lot of your problems. If anything happens to her, Lionel, I'm coming for you next. BANGER: What the? [MEN GROANING] REESE: Knock, knock. What do we have here? Hector's a busy man. Fixing cars and running guns. LEONARD: Who are you, man? Tell Hector I'm the guy that just put him out of business. I see him again, I'll close down more than the shop. [CHATTERING OVER MONITOR] If you help us, I can protect you and your family. I promise. This is just a negotiation for you. You don't care about me or my family. Your son is named after you. He's turning 8 in 14 days, right? His favorite sport, soccer. But it's too dangerous to play in the field by you. Your only brother, Naji, was killed nine months ago by an IED. You visit his grave every day. So, you see you are not just a negotiation. Not to me. - Do you have children? - A son. Taylor. Would you trust his life to a complete stranger? I'd do whatever was in my power to protect him. You lost your brother, Yusuf. [SIGHS] I lost someone very close to me too. It changed everything. You and me? We're not that different. No, we want the same thing. For our children to walk down the street and not be afraid. Show me where those explosives are. The location is not on the map. Then you'll take us to them. For our children. CARTER: Hey, BC. You got anything on Hector's new woman? Relax. Fusco's all right. Easy there, hubcap. I don't bite. All right, let's make this quick. I seen Hector's GTO outside the Lookie-Loo. Turns out, he's bumping one of the dancers. Mei Li. Ask me, Hector got a little tired of his chica, wanted some strange. Heh, you done good. Uh, I thought you said real money. Reward money. Okay. If this pans out, I will get you that reward money. Meet you later, even take you to dinner at your favorite spot. All right. Yeah, but only because it's you. You always been good to me, Carter. Okay. Take care. Yes, me and Hector was together all night. - We watched TV and then went to bed. - What did you watch? I don't know, Hector's always changing channels. Heard that about that guy. He gets bored, likes to switch it up, huh? [CARTER CHUCKLES] Is that why he has that other girl on the side? Heh, no, no, no. You see, my man don't step out on me. I'll cut it off. Ooh, okay. Come here, I want you to see something. That's Hector's cell phone bill. You know whose number that is? Because he dialed it 33 times. Probably one of his homies. Man gossips like a little school girl. Well, it's easy enough to find out. Go ahead, dial it. FUSCO: So you were with Hector all night? - Last night, this morning. Hector's a morning person. Likes to spoon. [CELL PHONE RINGS] Hello? - Who is this? - Wait, who the hell are you? Okay, all right. Whoa, whoa, whoa. Looks like you two got a lot to sort out. Uh, make sure they don't kill each other. MONICA: Oh, no, you got to be kidding me. [MONICA, MEI LI AND FUSCO SHOUTING INDISTINCTLY] Looks like you're not the only one's got a beef with Hector Alvarez. Some guy came into his body shop and shot up the place. Bangers inside got a taste of their own medicine. Said the guy had a submachine gun and a grenade launcher. You believe that? This guy wearing a suit? - No, motorcycle jacket. Why? - Maybe it's in the cleaners. Hector's wanted for questioning. Suffice it to say, he's, uh, disappeared. MONICA: Get off me! - Somebody knows where he is. If I find Hector, I'll give him your best. Hector's on the run. He's not gonna be a problem for Carter. I'm not sure. Carter is now determined to get justice for Ronnie. She will find where Hector is hiding. This guy's running guns. - Wherever he is, he's armed. - When she goes to arrest him I'll just have to get there first. FINCH: Is everything okay, Mr. Reese? We got into this to stop bad things from happening to good people. Carter's been doing that her whole life. She's not just another number, Finch. Some people the world can't afford to lose. Either of you ready to make a statement? Yeah, I got a statement. Hector Alvarez is a damn fool if he thinks he can play us both. Mm-hm. Bastard came to my place, but he went out around midnight. - Did he go to the market? MEI LI: What he said. But he came back empty-handed and changed his shirt. - You wash this shirt of his? - Oh, hell no. It's all yours. Along with all his stuff. So where is Hector? He has a warehouse in Queens. On 25th. Hangs out there sometimes when he's expecting a shipment. Call ESU. Get a team on standby. [CELL PHONE RINGS] I'm gonna see about getting warrant. Hello? MRS. KOVACH [OVER PHONE]: He's got a gun. Wait. Calm down. I can't understand you. MRS. KOVACH: He's got a gun. KOVACH: Get out of there. MRS. KOVACH: God, please. He's gonna kill me. Hurry! - Mrs. Kovach? Where are you? MRS. KOVACH: In the bathroom. Stay where you are. I'm gonna come get you. [DIAL TONE] Hello? Hello? Carter's going to the Kovachs' house. He's armed, sounds extremely agitated. Reese? Where are you? MAN [OVER RADIO]: All units, code 10. Shots fired at 326 Greentree in Flushing. [KNOCK ON DOOR] CARTER: N.Y.P.D. Open up! FUSCO: We should wait for backup. I got a bad feeling. Mr. Kovach, it's the police. Put down your weapon. The hell? [KOVACH GROANS] - Somebody gift wrapped him for us. - Somebody's doing that a lot lately. Mrs. Kovach? [MRS. KOVACH WHIMPERING] - Mrs. Kovach, are you okay? - He was gonna kill me. If that man hadn't shown up That man, what'd he look like? [PHONE RINGS] Hello? It's for you. Guess I have you to thank for this. How do you always know something bad's about to go down? You're in trouble, detective. CARTER: I'm not the one who's hiding. You keep playing God, sooner or later an innocent person's gonna get hurt. - I can't let that happen. - I didn't call to talk about me. Your life's in danger. I'm a cop, my life's always in danger. REESE: You're not listening to me. I'm trying to tell you. Someone wants you dead. Who told you that? Why are you following me? What do you want? I want you to start being more careful. For instance, if you're gonna take down Hector Alvarez know the man's running guns. He has an arsenal at his fingertips. Why are you helping me? And how do you keep finding out all this information? Like you said, I always seem to know. [MOTORCYCLE ENGINE STARTS] I never saw his face. He came out of nowhere. He attacked me. You people can't arrest me. Yes, we can. Your wife is pressing charges, Eddie. - We get a warrant on Hector Alvarez yet? - Yeah, ESU's standing by. Who died? [CHATTERING OVER MONITOR] REESE [OVER PHONE]: Finch, Carter's called an ESU unit to Hector's warehouse in Queens. They're getting ready to knock on the door as we speak. ESU OFFICER: Let's go. Move out. It's time to roll. Stay here. I'll advise you when we have Alvarez apprehended. - Do you have eyes on Carter? REESE: She's clear of the line of fire. If Hector puts up a fight, it could be dangerous. How will you be close enough to protect her? Oh, I'm pretty close. - They got this place covered, right? ESU LEADER: Absolutely. ESU LEADER: Going in. Everybody set? ESU OFFICER: Yes, sir. ESU LEADER: Do it. ESU OFFICER: Move, move, move! N.Y.P.D. [GUNFIRE] That doesn't sound good. ESU OFFICER: You! Face down! [ENGINE REVVING NEARBY] CARTER: You hear something around back? [GRUNTS] CARTER: Get out of the car. ESU OFFICER: Suspect apprehended. HECTOR: Take it easy, ugh! Everything all right, Mr. Reese? Hector's got a new set of bracelets. Should keep him busy for a while. That's for Ronnie. I told you I'd get you. [GRUNTING] CARTER [OVER PHONE]: Hey, Taylor, baby, I'm running a little late. I'll be there soon. Sounds like Carter's headed home. Made it through the day. Have we eliminated the threat yet? Kovach and Alvarez are neutralized. But this is a tricky case. To be perfectly honest, I'm just not sure. REESE: Finch Carter lives uptown. So why is she headed downtown? Wait a minute Where'd she go? I lost her. Track her phone for me. Where you been? Said you was gonna buy me dinner. - Where you been? I been waiting. - I'm sorry, BC. I gotta fill out a requisition for the big payout. - But look, you take whatever I got. - No, that's all right. - You ain't gotta do that. - Let's call this a down payment. Okay? I want you to have that. I'm sorry, Carter. You always been good to me. But I ain't got no choice. You told me to find that guy, Elias. Well, I found him. - Sorry. - Ugh. Said it's either gonna be you or me. It ain't gonna be me. [GUNSHOTS] [GROANING] Look alive, Carter. About all that's left of that storage facility your friend took us to. You found the explosives? Found and detonated. I, uh, couldn't have done what you did. Getting information from that raghead. Where's Yusuf? Yeah, he, uh, didn't make it back. Accidents happen. He trusted me. I gave him my word. I promised I'd protect him. You shouldn't make promises you can't keep. You don't think this guy was innocent? He had a family. Don't you care what happens to them? It's not my job to care. What is wrong with you? You can't just play God! You don't get to decide who lives and who dies. You wanna stand on your high horse? Go ahead. Don't expect me and my men to back you up. It's a long war. You're all alone. REESE: Glad you took my advice about wearing that vest, detective. I know this doesn't change anything. You'll still arrest me if you get the chance. You should know whether you like me or not, Joss, you're not alone. REESE [OVER PHONE]: Elias got to Carter's CI turned him into his trigger man. FINCH [OVER PHONE]: Is she safe? REESE: For now. Time to end this, Finch. Once and for all. [LYNCH YELLS] Body falls from this height, it's messy. Of course I don't care about making it look clean. Unlike your pal, Elias. I don't know who you are. You're threatening a captain. Okay. Okay! Okay. Elias can't kill a cop without permission. Run this up the chain of command. Permission's been revoked. Tell Elias if he so much as touches Detective Carter again I will put him, you everyone in the ground. - You got that? - Yeah. [CHATTERING OVER MONITOR] CARTER: Grandma said you were late for curfew again. Oh, come on, Ma. You serious? I was at a dance. She pretty? Better be smart too. Smart and pretty. You all right, Mom? Did you pull your back or something? It's nothing that won't heal, heh. Sorry I missed it, T. TAYLOR [OVER FEED]: You work too hard. You should quit. CARTER [OVER FEED]: Wouldn't know how to if I tried. I don't like it. You out there, every day. Who's got your back? CARTER: You don't have to worry about me. I can take care of myself. Besides, we got each other. Who else do we need? [CHUCKLES] [MOTORCYCLE ENGINE REVVING]
FINCH: You are being watched. The government has a secret system. A machine that spies on you every hour of every day. I know because I built it. I designed the machine to detect acts of terror, but it sees everything. Violent crimes involving ordinary people. People like you. Crimes the government considered irrelevant. They wouldn't act, so I decided I would. But I needed a partner. Someone with the skills to intervene. Hunted by the authorities, we work in secret. You will never find us. But victim or perpetrator, if your number's up, we'll find you. [CHATTERING OVER MONITOR] [PHONE LINE RINGS] BANNERMAN [OVER PHONE]: Any sign of the kid? DAYNE [OVER PHONE]: No, still looking. BANNERMAN: Knew we shouldn't have trusted him. Damn kid's always been reckless. [CHATTERING OVER MONITOR] FINCH: Whenever you're ready, Mr. Reese. I'm in here. Where did you come from? I breached the space-time continuum. Not really. I did sense my privacy being invaded. We'll leave that for now. We have work. Numbers have come in. What do you mean, numbers? What plurals usually mean. More than one. In this case, four. Claire Ryan, 42, a lecturer at NYU. Matt Duggan, 33, a waiter. Wendy McNally, 29, a hair stylist. And Paula Vasquez, 23, unemployed. They seem completely random. Usually when the machine sends us number clusters like this there is some connection. So one of these four could be trying to kill the other three. Or they could all be victims or killers or, as you say, random. Either way, we need to move fast. Claire Ryan's number came up first, if only by a millisecond. REESE: Hmm. Speaking of privacy. Careful what you look for, Mr. Reese, or you might find it. [CHATTERING OVER MONITOR] We have to be straight with you. Some things don't add up. Like what? You go to meet your confidential informant one Nashus Drake, a.k.a. Bottlecap, according to you, a trusted source. He shoots you in the chest. Luckily you're wearing a vest. He's gonna kill you when he gets shot by an unknown shooter. Like it says in my statement. Your statement doesn't say where this unknown shooter came from. Because I don't know. It also doesn't say why he did it. Maybe because he saw me about to get shot. - So he cares about you. - I doubt he gives a damn about me. But this is the man you've been chasing for the last three months? As it says in my statement, I believe so. So this guy allegedly you've been trying to lock up he saves your life? - "Allegedly." That's clever. You know what would be clever? You pretending to chase this guy when in fact you're working for him. [CHUCKLES] I think we're done here. Detective, tell me something. Has he made contact with you? Spoken to you? You got my statement. We don't talk again unless my delegate is present. [MEN CHUCKLING] So he's pacing back and forth, back and forth, back and forth. Finally pulls his mask down, walks into a door, knocks himself out cold. The genius forgot to cut the eye holes in the mask. [FUSCO CHUCKLES] Hey, Carter. You got shot. Take some time off. My vest got shot. It can take some time off. How's it going with the inquiry and everything? The way they usually go. They make you feel like you murdered your mother. So I'm stuck on my desk and you're working with Olson. Ah, great. Detective Happy. [CHUCKLES] - What did you tell them about the CI? - The truth. Taken out by an unknown shooter. - You got a good look at him this time? - No, not his face. Maybe that's a good thing, because, you know, it would be hard. You don't know whether to thank the guy or arrest him. No, that'd be easy. I'd arrest him. Whatever happens, you need anything, I got your back. Okay. REESE [OVER PHONE]: Finch, I'm at Claire's apartment. Something's up. Excuse me. - Finch. - Mr. Reese. You said the machine would give us the number in time. It didn't. [CHATTERING OVER MONITOR] OLSON: So, what do we got? Victim's name is Claire Ryan. A professor, lived alone. Looks like she was beaten up. One shot to the head, close-range. Looks like she came into some money. Blu-ray player, new tablet, shoes. Expensive shoes. Jimmy Choo, Manolo Blahnik. All bought this morning. What else do we know about our vic? - I asked you a question, Fusco. - What? Oh, what's that? I'm done at Claire's. I need you out on the street. You gotta help me get eyes on the remaining three. I'm more useful trying to find connections between them. REESE: No point in that if they're all dead. Tracking people down is your area of expertise. I can't track three people down and I don't wanna lose anyone else. I need you out here. - I'm on my way. - I'll take Wendy. Put Fusco on Paula. Can you track Matt? I can track Matt. On my way. What the hell are you doing here? You didn't kill her, did you? Lionel, after all we've been through. - Exactly. - Why aren't you working with Carter? She's on desk duty till her homicide gets cleaned up. Some unknown gunman caused her a world of grief. - Wouldn't know anything about that? - No. Find this girl Paula. Address is on the back. - Keep your eyes on her. FUSCO: "Paula Vasquez." Why? Don't want her ending up like the lady upstairs. You think she might? I know she won't, because you'll throw yourself in front of the bullet. Funny. What about the homicide I'm supposed to be investigating? Paula could be connected to your homicide. Stay on her. - Who messed with my desk? - Carter. In here. What else have you got on your special forces guy? Everything I got is in the file he's reading, whoever he is. You been after this guy for months, you don't have a description? He's tall, he wears a suit, sometimes rides a motorcycle. That's it. This is serious, Carter. Letting him run, you've made him a problem for the whole department. I did not let him run. I've been trying to catch the son of a bitch. Did he shoot your CI? [CHUCKLES] I'm not answering that until I know who he is. Answer the question or turn in your badge. Yes, it was him. That'll be all, detective. REESE: Finch, I'm at Wendy's salon. Seems fine. Hang on a sec. MAN: Signature please. - Thank you. MAN: Excuse me. WENDY: Hi. Can I help you? I need to make an appointment. - Wash and cut? Something a little more modern? Bit of styling? Is this, uh, gray au naturel or au bottle? It's, uh Sexy, either way. - So, uh, you single? - What? Single? Yes. Girls, he's single. [WOMEN CHUCKLE] Uh, I just need an appointment. Um, sorry, but I'm not letting you back out on the street looking like this. FUSCO: Damn it. FINCH [OVER PHONE]: Mr. Reese, I'm tracking our friend, Matt Duggan. Looks he's having an early midlife crisis. He just quit his job and now he's shopping for motorcycles. Hold on. [CELL PHONE BEEPS] My aunt in Boston died, left me a nice chunk of change. Thought I'd treat myself to a dream. Won't be a minute, hon. Yep, he's buying himself a new Ducati. Paying cash. The murdered woman, Claire, was spending big too. Look around, Finch. Is anyone watching your guy? I'm not exactly good at this. No, no one I can see. Keep your eyes open. [PHONE BEEPS] Call me back. - Lionel? - Yeah, that Paula girl, I lost her. - Yeah, she gave me the slip. - Well, good work, detective. I'm sorry, okay? Look, another thing. I think she bought a firearm. You lost her and she weaponed up? You'd better stick to your day job. Excuse me, I'm waiting for Wendy. I'm sorry, she had an emergency, had to rush off. - I'm free. I can fit you in now. - No, thank you. Uh, Finch, what do you got? Our man is coming out of the showroom. Placed his order and left a deposit. REESE [OVER PHONE]: Okay, stay on him. Both girls just gave us the slip. Hold on. - Someone left a stroller. - What are you talking about? There's a baby stroller near the car. Don't know where the mom Oh, there she is. - Oh, my God, it's a bomb. - Get down. Down on the ground. I have to warn him. Finch, are you okay? Harold. [CHATTERING OVER MONITOR] CLAIRE: I saw it. I saw the crash. Oh, my God, he's dead. - What's that stuff? MATT: Uh, I think it's cocaine. I should have seen it quicker. I mean, what kind of a mother leaves a stroller? She was wearing sunglasses and a scarf, to hide her face. - Finch. Finch. - If I'd warned him, he'd still be here. You couldn't have saved him. You have to let it go. We have to concentrate on the ones still alive. - Wendy and Paula. - I looked for connections. Found none. No shared employment history, no social networking. Paula's online footprint is miniscule. So she's either the paranoid sort or she likes to fly beneath the radar. - Both of which I can relate to, but - Finch, connections. Right. I'm sorry. Smart phones constantly search for Wi-Fi signal. They keep the last 100 or so Wi-Fi hot spots in their memory. I've extracted that from Matt, Wendy and Claire's phones. I'm using it to plot where our friends went in the last 24 hours, to see if they [COMPUTER BEEPING] To see if they intersect. Roosevelt Drive, 11:57 p.m. They were all in the same place for four minutes. Why? According to the DOT website, there was a traffic accident with a fatality. Name of the deceased withheld. That's our connection. For three of them, but not paranoid Paula. We don't have her phone, so we don't know where she was that night. She bought a gun. She could be our killer. - Then you need to get to Wendy. - I have tried. But her apartment's empty and she's abandoned her cell phone. Only relative I could find, Wendy's mom, Sue, lives in Putnam County. [SIGHS] - What are you doing, Carter? CARTER: I got bored. Thought I'd lend you a hand with your case. I ran your murder victim Claire Ryan's fingerprints through APHIS. They showed up at this car crash two nights ago. Claire's prints were on the car, and this guy, Matt Duggan. CSU thinks they were witnesses trying to help this guy in the car but he was killed on impact. - I missed something. - How does this help our case? - Claire's dead and so is Matt. Killed in a car explosion yesterday. Which could be a coincidence except Matt had just bought himself a brand new Ducati, paying cash. Claire had been shopping too. CARTER: So they're both at the crash. They both get money. - They both get dead. - Money must have come from the car. - Who was driving it? - According to CSU Congressman Hallen's son, Jamie. A congressman's son? How'd that get hushed up? The congressman is on the committee investigating Wall Street banks and he's a friend of the police unions. - I guess that buys some goodwill. Was it an accident? CSU thinks Jamie was speeding and on coke. The only thing that was found in the car was a brochure for a Haitian orphans charity Jamie ran. I should go down to 1 PP check out what the cameras at the Real Time Crime Center saw. I think you should stay at your desk like the captain told you to. [CELL PHONE RINGS] Lionel, what a pleasure. FUSCO [ON PHONE]: Our murder victim, Claire Ryan connects to Congressman Hallen's son. Died two nights ago in a car crash. You wanna give this to your little friend. - I'm here, Detective Fusco. - Yeah, right. Hi to you too. I was about to say, there were two sets of prints on Jamie Hallen's car. Claire's and a Matt Duggan's. - He got killed FINCH: In an explosion yesterday. - Hallen crashed on Roosevelt Drive? - I thought that was hush. Car crash must be where they got the money. - Jeez, anything you don't know? - Yeah. How's Carter doing? Hanging in there. Hard to do your job when you're stuck on your desk. FINCH [ON PHONE]: We'll keep an eye on her, make sure she's okay. And, detective, leave your phone on when you talk to Congressman Hallen. You can hear me all the time? Yes, and I'm hearing rather too much of your lower intestine. Could you possibly move your phone from your belt to your jacket pocket? OLSON: Hey, Fusco, you die in there? - Keep your panties on. I'm coming. If there's anything I can do, please call me. Thank you, Davis. Thank you very much. And again, my deepest sympathies for your loss, congressman. - Appreciate it, thank you. - The police, sir. Detectives Olson and Fiasco. Fusco. Why are you here? I already talked to one of your people about Jamie's accident. OLSON: We have further questions about the accident. It may relate to another case. Know your son's movements that night? He was at a party at Davis Bannerman's house. He, uh, was driving home when he was killed. You're investigating Bannerman's bank and your son socializes with him? I didn't like it either, but I couldn't control my son's social life. - Your son have a lot of money on him? HALLEN [OVER FEED]: I have no idea. Why would that be pertinent? FUSCO [OVER FEED]: Two people were murdered. We think they were both at the crash site. We also think they found money in the car. - I'm sorry, I don't know what to say. - Was he dealing drugs? [SIGHS] Look, he's dead. Can't we just let it go at that? Two other people are dead too, so no. Was he dealing? [SIGHS] I worried that he was doing something he shouldn't be doing. He was dealing with people he shouldn't have been dealing with. That's all I can say about it. OLSON: We'll have to talk to Bannerman. HALLEN: As long as you take what he says to you with a grain of salt. We're not friends. One of these was found in your son's car. He set up this charity? Yes, he did. It's how I like to think of him. His good deeds. FINCH: You left Bannerman's house, but you weren't going home, were you, Jamie? [CHATTERING OVER MONITOR] - Here's your new phone, okay? - Thanks. - You say anything to Mom? - Not till I know we're safe. Did you hear about that guy, Matt? There's people looking for us. Okay? You get back or I will shoot you. REESE: If you're gonna buy a gun make sure you know how to use it. You came to the salon. What do you want? You mean, apart from a haircut? How do you two know each other? We've known each other for years. We're foster sisters. - Not that it's any of your business. - Guess the, uh, money you took from the crashed car is none of my business either? We're not telling you anything till we know who you are and why you're following us. [KNOCKING AT DOOR] DAYNE: Hello? Anyone at home? Find out what he wants and stand away from the door. PAULA: Who is it? DAYNE: Uh, my name is Dayne. Uh, I'm sorry to trouble you, but my car's just broken down. I'm sorry, but this isn't a garage. Heh, I know, I know, but the thing is my phone's just died and the kids are getting kind of scared, so if I could just use your phone. - I'll pay for the call. - Let him in. [DAYNE YELLS] [GUNFIRE] [TIRES SCREECH] CARTER: Here's how Jamie Hallen died. Ooh. I persuaded a tech at the Real Time Crime Center to copy this for me. Two cars stopped after the crash. Crime Center guys were able to read the plates. Prius registered to Claire Ryan, Escort to Matt Duggan. So they're confirmed. But look at this. FUSCO: Two more women. CARTER: Mm-hm. FUSCO: Crime Center identify them? CARTER: Nope. Camera's set for maximum field of view. Resolution's not enough for facial recognition. This is where it gets interesting. FUSCO: A suitcase. That has to be the money. We gotta find these girls before the killers do. Guy at the Crime Center said there's another detective looking for them. Detective Foster, 82nd Precinct. FUSCO: We got anything else? CARTER: Yeah, this guy, about 30 minutes after the crash. He makes a phone call. FUSCO: Wish we could hear what he was saying. CARTER: Unfortunately, we're not the NSA. Vehicle must be new, because, look, there are no plates. FUSCO: That's convenient. Wanna get in some more trouble, Carter? Go talk to Detective Foster and see if he knows anything. Be a pleasure. Finch, can you do a search for Susan McNally at St. George's Hospital? I'm on it. Everything all right? Killers just tried to take out Wendy and Paula. - Please, tell me they failed. - For now. Girls took off. They're sisters, Finch. Foster sisters. If their mom's still at St. George's, that's where I think they'll go. Mom is still there. So she's sick? That why the girls took the money? Had a fall, broke her hip. Not sick exactly. Her home is the problem. Mortgage is worth more than the house. Bank's foreclosing on her. Oh, at least they took the money for a reason. You know whose it is yet? I'm digging. Keep those girls safe. [CHATTERING OVER MONITOR] Fusco, Carter. Just left the 82nd. There is no Detective Foster. Somebody used a fake detective shield to get eyes on the crash footage. [CAR HORN HONKS] Remember how Claire was beaten up? I think the killer tracked her through her license plates then tortured her to get the other names. Call me. What's wrong with you, following a cop? Trying to get yourself shot? - I'm just worried about you, detective. - Don't. Just back off, okay? You and your preppy friend over there. Why don't we go somewhere quiet where we can talk? You're CIA. I met plenty like you in the Green Zone. So why are you worried about me? Because of the man you're chasing. He's dangerous. Heh, he saved my life. What was that, an accident? No, just proves he still has good instincts. - Do you even know him? - Yeah. I was his best friend. Then why do you want him so bad? Because he used to kill people for his country. Now he just kills them. His victims. The ones that we know of. For some he deserves a medal, for some the chair. - Why are you telling me this? - We want you to know who he is. He's an incredibly dangerous, incredibly gifted man who's been almost destroyed by the things he was made to do. He's always looking for someone to trust, but paranoia makes it impossible. I don't understand. SNOW: Kara Stanton, his CIA handler. They were a team. Inseparable. Saved each other's lives a dozen times, then He killed her. Then disappeared. We thought he was dead. Gave him his star on the wall at Langley. Then three months ago, you ran his prints. Brought him back from the dead. We want to bring him back in before he kills anyone else. Before he kills himself. We want to help him. So where do I come into all of this? We think he trusts you. Like he trusted her. We want you to keep yourself and him alive. [CHATTERING OVER MONITOR] Thanks for coming in, Mr. Bannerman. BANNERMAN: Anything for the N.Y.P.D. Jamie Hallen. He was at a party at your house two nights ago. Briefly. He was stoned. I asked him to leave. Even ordered a cab for him. He left before it arrived, sadly. Was he dealing drugs? Look, I liked the kid. I don't want to Was he dealing drugs? I don't know. But he seemed to have a lot of money suddenly. And, uh, let's put it like this: I heard he was dealing with some people he shouldn't. FINCH [OVER PHONE]: I heard, Detective Fusco. Bannerman's story confirmed Congressman Hallen's. - He said the same things. - Doesn't help us. You're not hearing me. He said the same thing as Hallen. I interrogate a lot of douches. I know when they get their lies lined up. They coordinated stories? FUSCO: Despite that they're supposed to hate each other? I think Bannerman was working something with Hallen. Jamie was the go-between. Now they're tossing him under the bus. Mr. Reese? I'm at the hospital. Wendy's here. No sign of Paula. - What do you got? - Getting close. I know where Jamie was going that night anyway. Only as far as LaGuardia Airport. - Was he flying somewhere? FINCH: Yes. On a jet belonging to Davis Bannerman. Flight plan to the Caymans filed with the FAA. Jamie Hallen the only passenger on the manifest. Excuse me, can I help you? Are you looking for someone? I just found them. Thanks. Why was he going to the Caymans? I believe he was working for his Haitian orphans charity. A theory I'm about to put to the test. I'll call you. - Where's Paula? - She's gone to get something to eat. We were worried about you. Wasn't me they were trying to kill. [SIGHS] I'm sorry we lied to you before. You were at the crash scene. Want to tell me what happened? We were out walking. The car crashed almost in front of us. We ran up, found two people there already trying to help. Uh The driver was dead, coke all over him and a suitcase with like a million bucks in it. Young guy, fast car, cocaine, cash. I mean, the money had to be illegal. So you took it. We divvied it up, 250 grand each. It would've fixed everything. It was wrong. We knew it was wrong. We should have called 911 and walked away. Where's the money? It's under Mom's bed in there. The nurses think it's her knitting. Half a million dollars worth of knitting. [PAULA GASPS] DAYNE: Shh. What do you want to do? We want to give the money back. We don't know who these guys are. Drug dealers, Mafia. And your mom? Her house? We'll find a way somehow. [CELL PHONE RINGING] WENDY: Hmm, that's Paula. DAYNE [OVER PHONE]: Just sent you a picture. Get the money and come to the third floor of the parking garage. Come alone, no muscle, if you want your friend to live. DAYNE [OVER MONITOR]: Found him. He's dead. The money's gone. They got cameras. Might need some help. [CHATTERING OVER MONITOR] Mr. Hallen, this is Thomas Paine. Congressman, thank you for seeing me on such short notice. A pleasure to meet a representative of the blogosphere. Have a seat. - Ah, that's a rather famous name. - A nom de plume. Sir, your enemies are trying to bring you down. And they're using your son to do it. - They used Jamie? How? - Blackmail. You know about his Haitian orphans charity? Yes, I hope it will be his legacy. I hope it won't. They have $30 million in that account and they've never helped a single child. It's a classic black-arts set-up. They open an offshore account Who are they, for God's sake? The banks, of course. Bannerman and his ilk. They stuff it with money. They tie you to it by association. And then they expose it and ruin you. The man who's supposed to bring honesty to Wall Street is shown to be as corrupt as those he's investigating. - Have you taken this to the police? - No, no, no. They're in the pocket of Wall Street. I'm offering you a chance to extricate yourself. As your son's executor, you could close that charity transfer those funds to the Red Cross. And then what would your enemies have on you? Nothing. You'd be clean. And all of their dirty money would have gone to a good cause. - It's a brilliant idea. - But you have to move fast. I will. Do you have a contact number? It's written on this. My plume de nom, rather than nom de plume. Indeed, Mr. Paine. I'm deep in your debt. [PHONE LINE RINGS] BANNERMAN [OVER PHONE]: Davis Bannerman. HALLEN [OVER PHONE]: Davis, this is Jim Hallen. Before you ask me how I am, I'm not well. Not only is my son dead but his damn accident is threatening to put us both in jail. BANNERMAN: The last two items are about to be dealt with, so relax. I can't. Some idiot blogger found out about the Cayman charities. BANNERMAN: What? How? HALLEN: How do I know? We're gonna shut it down, move the money. But first you've got to close up the leak. BANNERMAN: No problem. How do we find him? FUSCO [OVER PHONE]: Fusco. Detective Fusco. I'm sending you a recording. [PHONE RINGS] - Carter. - Heard you've been taking some heat because of me. Maybe. Maybe you can come in here, help me explain some things. No, thanks, but I can help you look good in another way. Oh, yeah? The people who killed Claire Ryan and Matt Duggan. Parking garage, St. George's Hospital. When's it going down? - I have to go. - Wait. Thank you. For saving my life. You're welcome. [DIAL TONE] Ready? [LINE RINGS] SNOW [OVER PHONE]: Snow. He just called. I know where he's gonna be. [CHATTERING OVER MONITOR] Call the number. Tell him he doesn't see you or the money until you see Paula. I'm here, but I'm not gonna do a thing until I can see that Paula's safe. DAYNE [OVER PHONE]: Okay. Paula's okay. You're gonna walk towards her. If I shout, you run. Okay? Go. You again? Have you lost your car? I'm waiting for someone. Okay. Good night, then. Wendy, Paula, run! Run, Paula. [DAYNE YELLS] I thought you were nice. [BOTH GRUNTING] [YELLS] Are you okay? Will you take this? No. You earned it. No one's coming after you anyway, not now. You should go quickly. CARTER [ON MONITOR]: Thank you. For saving my life. REESE [ON MONITOR]: You're welcome. CARTER: He just called. I know where he's gonna be. SNOW: You got the cameras? EVANS: Yeah. Cutting the feeds now. Hello, John. - Mark. SNOW: Glad to see you're still alive. REESE: I bet you are. Surprised you ended up in New York City. Thought you'd get yourself a cabin in the woods. Montana maybe. What do you want, Mark? Time to come home, John. Slate's been wiped clean. You know that'll never happen. [GRUNTS] - See him? - Negative. Get down here and find him. Carter. Damn it. - Hey, Harold. - John, I've been trying to call you. Yeah. - I've been kind of busy. - Where are you? In a parking structure. It's not looking good. - Carter sold you out. They got to her. - Yeah, they're clever like that. Wanted to say thank you, Harold. For giving me a second chance. It's not over, John. I'm close. Just get to the ground floor. No. You stay away. Don't even risk it. [TIRES SCREECHING] Hold it! You? [SIGHS] Get him out of here. Come on. Go.
FINCH: You are being watched. The government has a secret system. A machine that spies on you every hour of every day. I know because I built it. I designed the machine to detect acts of terror, but it sees everything. Violent crimes involving ordinary people. People like you. Crimes the government considered irrelevant. They wouldn't act, so I decided I would. But I needed a partner. Someone with the skills to intervene. Hunted by the authorities, we work in secret. You will never find us. But victim or perpetrator, if your number's up, we'll find you. SNOW [ON MONITOR]: Got eyes on Reese. Kill the cameras. Time to come home, John. Slate's been wiped clean. REESE: You know that will never happen. [GUNSHOT] [REESE GROANS] Third one tonight. Must be a full moon. Your name is Farouk Madani. You were the best surgeon in Najaf. You can't afford a license in the States, you send your money home to family. Stitch him up. No questions asked. And you can be a doctor again. [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] CARTER: Police. Everybody out. N.Y.P.D. Come out of there. SNOW: Is there a problem, detective? Are you guys this sloppy when you tail Al-Qaeda? Cute place. You gonna be out for a while? Right. This isn't you being sloppy at all. This is you making a point. You're the only person who's had contact with our boy. If I hear from him, you'll be the first to know. But all this? Unnecessary. Is it? You know, I was really surprised he was able to slip away. I just can't figure how he did it. Not my case anymore. So you have fun with that. I don't like this any more than you do, Carter. Watching someone night and day, you never know what you'll dig up. I've seen it ruin careers, families. Threatening a police officer is against the law, Mr. Snow. So is lying to a federal agent. I'll be seeing you. [SIGHS] Okay, where would you keep? [SCOFFS] This guy's his partner and it turns out I've had his phone number for weeks, now. WOMAN [OVER PHONE]: The number you have reached is not in service. You're gonna use my computer, you gotta do my reports too. Hi, Detective Carter, N.Y.P.D. I need all the locations data you've got on a disconnected cell phone. Yeah, name's Burdett, Norman. FUSCO: So who's this guy? CARTER: That's what I'm trying to find out. [PANTING] IRWIN [OVER RADIO]: I thought these folks were just for your boss. CORWIN: Sorry about all the cloak-and-dagger. So, what brings you up from D. C? CORWIN: You. - Ah, I'm flattered, Alicia. CORWIN: Don't be. My people want answers. Your company's had the NSA feeds for three years. Not my company. Just me. If Congress knew about this machine you're building about the unfettered access we've given you to all the data we're compiling on U.S. Citizens you wouldn't just be shut down, you'd go to jail. I don't suppose they'd let us be cellmates? We need progress, Nathan, or we're pulling the plug. - What's this? - It's progress. CORWIN: Nine digits? - You work in intelligence. Figure it out. INGRAM: For once, I'd like you to handle one of these meetings while I lurk in the shadows. - You couldn't lurk if you tried. - Heh. That number we gave her better pan out. It will. How? I don't know. But the machine does. - Have a little faith, Nathan. INGRAM: In you, or in the machine? [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] Okay, Mr. Hayes, this is the place. Watch your step Uh, not your step, I mean It's just one of those things people say. You know, no offense. Uh, we got ramps all over the place, so if you need anything I'll be on my feet in a few days. Yeah, but if anything goes wrong, you call me. I'm the super. Name is Trask. I tell you that already? Twice. I guess I'm getting old. It seems like yesterday I was partying till dawn down in Miami. Used to own six nightclubs down there. Mansion in Coral Gables, a white Bengal tiger. I had to give all that up. Bad for my health. What about you? Where you from? What do you do? How'd you wind up in that chair? I had a rough night. [BOTH CHUCKLE] Okay. Here are the keys. You need anything my number's on that lease. The name is You know. [DOOR CLOSES] Everything satisfactory, Mr. Reese? Nice place. You really shouldn't have gone to this much trouble. No trouble. I thought you'd get tired of hotels. And in your condition I felt that something a bit more low-profile was in order. Where's our pal Snow? Preoccupied with Detective Carter. - She all right? - Not that I don't share your concern for the woman who tried to hand you over to the CIA She did let us go. Just Keep an eye on her for me for a while, while I'm resting up. About that I'm not here to rest, am I? I'm afraid the machine waits for no man. So who's the next number on your list? - You just met him. - The super? - Mr. James, got that shower head for you. JAMES: Okay, thanks. - How you doing, Mrs. Park? - Oh, fine. Ease up on the phone, Aaron, it'll nuke your brain. Lily the cook. I love how you look. Thanks, Ernie. You write that one yourself? FINCH: Ernest P. Trask, 51 years old. Born in Goodland, Florida, population 394. Small towns aren't paragons of digital recordkeeping but I did verify he got a high school diploma. Let me guess, no nightclubs, no mansions. No pet tigers. Mr. Trask seems to have a vivid imagination. Don't you have anything to unpack? I travel light. Any idea what the threat is? Not yet. He's been the super for 14 years, lives and works in the same place. So whatever's going to happen with Trask, it will probably happen here. - How many in the building? - Two hundred forty-one. - So 241 suspects. - Or maybe just one. I took the liberty of hacking into Trask's online phone bill. He called three pawn shops last week, the kind that specialize in off-the-books sales of untraceable handguns. Trask might be planning to kill somebody. [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] - You didn't get me anything? - Coffee is for closers. I got you a clear shot at Reese and you whiffed. I wasn't aiming to kill. You said you wanted to question him about Ordos. If possible. Secondary objective. What's she up to? EVANS: Near as we can tell, catching up on paperwork. She's not using her computer or phones. Reese? People checking every hospital, clinic, and morgue in a 300-mile radius. If anybody stitched him up, we'll pick up a scent. FINCH: I hope you don't mind, but in addition to the necessary hardware I brought a few books for you to read and a little housewarming gift. - Thanks. - Want to try it out? Oh, no, I'm good for now. You'll thank me later. You know, Trask may seem harmless, but I've been fooled before. If he bought a gun, I'd just like to know why. Only one way to find out. REESE: We're going to hack his Wi-Fi. - We're gonna hack all of them. If the threat's here, we should know our neighbors. You're into 16 networks already? When the phone company puts in your Wi-Fi the password is your number. Most people never change. The other ones might actually take a minute. Once we're in, we can turn every webcam, nanny cam, security system and laptop on the network into our eyes and ears. - Just like the machine. - I suppose. If one apartment building were the entire world. REESE: Well, Lily the cook seems to be dating Rick from the penthouse. FINCH: Hmm. - And Amber in 714 is healthy. FINCH: Somehow I doubt that's what alerted the machine. Got one, Finch. Doug Stanley, security guard. He's been hunting a thief who's been stealing jewelry out of women's apartments. Maybe Trask is the thief, planning to kill Doug to cover his crimes. Or Trask knows the thief, and now they plan to kill him. That's the landlord, Alan Holt. REESE: Doesn't look like Trask is the employee of the month. Maybe he's about to snap and kill his boss. [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] FINCH: Why did the machine give us his number? Is Trask in trouble or is he the problem? REESE: You're not gonna get it staring at the wall. We need to do some legwork. Right. I'm in position. Make a quick vis. Mr. Trask? It's John Hayes in 521. - I'm having a bit of a problem. TRASK [OVER PHONE]: I'll be right there. [DOOR OPENS] Damn it, damn it, damn it. FINCH [OVER COMM]: I've planted the cameras, Mr. Reese. I'm starting the search. I haven't seen damage like this since Hurricane Opal trashed my yacht. Looks like somebody went at this with a hammer. No sign of a gun. But I doubt if he's just a collector of bullets. So who does he want to shoot? Of course I didn't bring the right one. I'll be right back. Trask needs a pipe wrench, Finch. He's coming back down. Okay, just a minute. REESE: Finch, he's in the courtyard headed your way. [RICK GRUNTS] RICK: Watch where you're going, Trask. REESE: Finch. FINCH: He's obsessed with her. I'm afraid we're not the only ones spying on our neighbors. Harold, get out of there now. REESE [OVER COMM]: Finch, did you get out of there? Finch? [ELEVATOR DINGS] Who the hell? Hey, come here. What were you doing in my place? - I could use a hand here. - Okay, hang on, hang on, hang on. He's gonna kill the elevator. [ELEVATOR DINGS] [SIGHS] TRASK: Security, this is Trask. REESE [OVER COMM]: He's in the stairwell. Turn right. Take the east stairs up three flights and you're home. Move quick, he'll be on your floor in about 40 seconds. I feel like a rat in a maze. [BREATHING HEAVILY] How do you put up with this? TRASK [OVER RADIO]: Doug, I caught a guy breaking in. He was just in my apartment. Keep walking, Finch. You'll be fine. TRASK: I think he might be the thief you've been looking for. Hey. What was that security guard doing in that apartment? Finch? I'm pretty sure Doug knows you're not the thief. He is, and I'm sending you the proof. - Nice phone. - Can I show you something? [PHONE BEEPS] TRASK [OVER RADIO]: Is he there? Have you found him yet? FINCH: So we can call the police. Or you can forget you saw me, and I'll forget I saw you. TRASK: I'm gonna check the next floor. He's not on two. So, Trask is armed, has a dangerous fixation on Lily and he just chased me up three floors. Safe to say he's our perpetrator. I don't know. Sure you don't want to double-check your machine? Yes, that joke never gets old. [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] [DOOR CLOSES] INGRAM: Harold, is everything okay? What the hell? We have company. - Sorry to pop up unannounced, Nate. - I guess we're not doing this over drinks. [INAUDIBLE DIALOGUE] He works here. Even I need technical support sometimes. Nathan, you remember Deputy Director Weeks. INGRAM: The man in charge. I hope I'm not in trouble. The nine digits you gave us are the social security number of a man named Gordon Kurzweil. He's one of ours. WEEKS [ON COMPUTER]: He's a DIA case officer. Top secret clearance been acing FBI background checks for 20 years. We surveilled Kurzweil for two weeks. Got nothing. When we were thinking you sold us a bill of goods he breaks pattern, goes for a drive. At a park in Bethesda, a Syrian businessman drops his phone. Kurzweil picks it up and via coded SMS, he arranges to sell 26 pounds of weapons-grade uranium to the Iranian government. I guess the number panned out. WEEKS: What I need you to explain to me is how did some damn computer program spot a traitor when federal agents couldn't? Honestly? Not a clue. The machine will deliver actionable intelligence in time to thwart any threat to national security, but its operating system is a black box. WEEKS: And if we want to direct this machine at a specific target? INGRAM: No need. It already watches every target. You're asking us to take a lot on faith here, Nathan. A piece of software we can't inspect, can't control, or modify. That only feeds us intel when it feels like it? When it perceives a threat. Look, I'm sorry, folks but it's the only way that we can keep it and us protected. If no human sees what the machine sees, then technically no one's Fourth Amendment rights have been violated. WEEKS: Why not focus on your computer and leave Constitutional concerns to us? INGRAM: Because I'm a citizen too. And I'm a lot more comfortable having this machine watch my every move than someone like you. CORWIN: So it will remain a closed system. Fully autonomous. - All we get is a number? - Did you need more to pick up Kurzweil? The software told you to take a closer look, so you did. It's a black box. That's the deal. You take it or leave it. I'm not accustomed to having contractors dictate terms. And if you're gonna be supplying crippled software maybe we need to revisit the question of price. Why don't you tell him the price negotiated, Alicia? Mr. Ingram felt that this project was his duty as a citizen, not a businessman. He's building the machine for one U.S. Dollar. I suppose I don't have a choice. I know, I know. [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] I don't know what to do anymore, how else to say no. He's always right there. Even when I can't see him, I can feel his eyes on me. It's a bump key. A hardware hack. Just stick it in, twist, give it a little jolt it'll open any lock in the building. You won't be caught with nowhere to run again. And this is everything you've found on the woman that Trask is obsessed with? Uh-huh. Lily Thornton. Grew up in Georgia, cooking in her dad's diner. Cordon Bleu, class of '05. Staying at her great aunt's apartment since '09 and currently a rising star at a top Manhattan bistro. Romantically linked to Rick Morris, a powerful restaurateur. This is very nice work, Mr. Reese. I have used a computer before. But we can't get video from her place. She changes her Wi-Fi password every day. Random alphanumerics. You gotta love a girl with good security habits. REESE: So, Trask has been snapping pictures of her. Are we sure that means he wants to kill her? Seventy-six percent of all female homicide victims are stalked before they're murdered. - I'd better keep an eye on her. - You're not tailing her to work. I'm getting pretty good at this thing. I'm sure the CIA will be deeply impressed when they shoot you. Just feeling a little restless here, Finch. Use the cushion. The numbers never stop coming in, Finch. What are we gonna do if another one comes in while I'm sidelined? I'm sure I'd think of something. And I know you won't carry a gun but if I'm sending you back in the field, you're getting basic self-defense. - I don't think - Listen up. If Trask comes at you, put your fingers straight out like this: Strike at his eyes. Poke him in the eyes? That's your technique? No, yours. If that doesn't work, you can take your thumb, jam it in his eye and twist till you hit his brain. - Please stop. REESE: Trask is still in the courtyard, but I want eyes on Lily at work. I'll be with her shortly. If she is Trask's intended victim I'd like a better view of the inside of her apartment instead of simply peering at her through a window. Mr. Reese, there's already a camera here. Basic consumer model, wireless, streaming to a hidden network. Receiver it's paired with could be anywhere in the building. I think Trask has been watching her every move. And I think Lily's been spied on enough. FUSCO: Cell phone location data. Oh. - Hey, where you going? - To get lost. I need to dust this for prints. Here you go. - I think you broke it! - So? Read a book. CARTER: Sir, N.Y.P.D. I need your jacket now. MAN: You're requisitioning my jacket? CARTER: Taxi. Queens, corner of 45th and 21 st. [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] [PHONE RINGING] Hey, you guys got a real problem. Carter's got info from one of your phones. She's tracking you. I'm aware she's looking for me. I don't suppose you know why. No. Not yet. - How's our guy? - Alive. Hidden. - Did you receive the package I sent? FUSCO: I got it here. - What, you run out of Adderall? - Our friend's prints are on it. I need you to throw the CIA off his trail. Take a road trip, detective. Connecticut's nice this time of year. - Is everything good? WOMAN: Uh-huh. - Make sure you try REESE: Good afternoon, Mr. Finch. How's it going with Lily? This may be the best catered stakeout in history. Don't eat in the field, Finch. Never know when you'll have to move fast. FINCH: Any progress on the landlord's e-mail? Still working on that one. What about the camera I found? If we can trace it to Trask we can get him fired. Maybe arrested. Still trying to break into the hidden wireless network. No luck cracking the password yet. But I did find out some information about our friend Trask. Turns out there used to be a Mrs. Trask. - Used to? - She disappeared 13 years ago. Trask never called the cops. Told everyone she went to be with family in Boca Raton. And I'm guessing she's not in Boca. MAN: Delivery for you. REESE: As far as I can tell she's not anywhere. MAN: Here you go. Maybe Lily's not his first. [LILY CLEARS THROAT] Sign here. And I think it's safe to say she knows she has a stalker. Hey, Aaron, will you just throw these away for me? Get rid of them. FINCH: Poor girl seems miserable. She just threw a gift in the trash. Bouquet of roses. [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] WOMAN: Taxi! CARTER: So this is where your trail ends, Burdett. Where'd you go from here? [TELEPHONE RINGING] FINCH [OVER PHONE]: You're wasting your time, detective. I falsified the location data this morning. I'm gonna go out on a limb and guess your name isn't Burdett. Do you think finding me will lead you to my partner? - Are you still trying to make that arrest? - No. His CIA pals got that out of my system. I wanted to catch him, not kill him. - What do you want now? CARTER: Still working that out. If I'm gonna keep lying to government agents to protect you two, I'm gonna need a damn good reason. I want answers. I need to know what you do. Turn around, detective. WAITER: Ma'am, can I get you anything else here? How's your friend? Heh. You're gonna have to tell me something. Like who the hell are you, and what exactly is going on here? When I was 9 years old, my brothers decided I needed to learn to swim, so they tossed me into the deep end. Took a few minutes, but I figured it out. Do you see that man, detective? His name is Derek Watson, 39 years old. Eighteen months ago, he lost his job. He tried to keep up with the mortgage as best he could but the money ran out, eventually. Lost his house. And his wife left soon after. Derek Watson is about to be involved in a violent crime. I don't know what, exactly. But believe me something is going to happen. You can't know that. FINCH: Bring your service weapon, detective? Sorry to toss you into the deep end. But as you know, my friend is indisposed. [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] OFFICER [OVER PHONE]: N.Y.P.D. Homicide. It's Carter. I need a background on a Derek Watson, 39 years old. OFFICER: I show a Derek H. Watson in Mount Vernon. House was foreclosed two months ago. No current address. That's him. What do you got? OFFICER: Not much. No priors. No arrests. A couple of unpaid parking tickets. But that's about it. What's the name of the bank that took his house? OFFICER: Truprime Mortgage. [DOOR OPENS] CARTER: Who filed the paperwork for the bank? OFFICER: John Dalton. Is this for an open homicide? CARTER: I'll have to get back to you on that. SNOW: Finest surveillance training on the planet and a New York cop gave you the slip. Well, I know she's not in here, guys. Reese hasn't turned up dead, so odds are he's found a safe house. Expand the search. All apartments and hotels rented in the last two days. - But if he's anywhere - Just make it happen. FINCH: You have eyes on Trask, Mr. Reese? Where have you been? FINCH: Now you know how I feel. Lily's headed home. Is it safe for her there? REESE: I'm watching Trask right now. But I'm not sure she's his target. - I think Trask might be after Rick. - Why? REESE: He spent the afternoon sniffing around Rick's apartment. If I didn't know better, I'd say now he's digging a grave. FINCH: Trask gets rid of the boyfriend and has Lily all to himself. - Everything all right? - Yeah, I'm just sick of being cooped up. Staring at screens all day. I'd rather be doing that than trudging around half of Manhattan. I have half a mind to spot Lily cab fare. Finch, how fast can you get here? About 15 minutes, why? REESE: Because we just ran out of time. I think Trask is making his move tonight. TRASK: Checking your mail? - Looks like it. I think, uh, I figured out why your place is flooding. It just, uh, needs a special faucet. Why don't we go check it out? If you like it, I can install it tomorrow. No more floods. - Why don't we go to the basement? - I'm busy, all right? I don't need to see. Just have it fixed. You need to stay away from Lily. What? You lost your mind? FINCH: I called the car. I can be there in five. That'll be four minutes too late. She doesn't love you, man. All right? You need to leave her alone. You got some kind of pathetic, old man crush, Trask? Gonna punch me out? Take Lily to the dance? You're not her boyfriend and you're not her hero. You're just the damn janitor so if my toilet clogs, I'll let you know. Otherwise, step aside. [FIRE ALARM WAILING] - Is the building on fire? - I'm sure everything's fine, Mrs. F but I'm gonna go check it out. LILY: I come home and things have moved, like he's been in my apartment. I'm scared of what he's going to do. REESE: This isn't over. Trask will try again. And he's still obsessed with Lily. Perhaps we should consider more aggressive tactics. [PHONE BEEPING] [SIGHS] [PHONE BEEPING] FINCH: He's terrorizing her. I want Trask out of the building tonight. Mr. Hayes? My name isn't Hayes. Then I'm gonna ask you to leave. Actually you're the one who'll be leaving. - Hey. I don't know what you think - I know about the roses. And the texts. - And the hidden cameras - No. I would never I know about the gun and I know you were ready to kill her boyfriend. He's not her boyfriend. You don't understand. Now you're gonna pack your bag and leave this place. And no matter how much you think you love her you're never coming back. - Please. I love this job. And I do care for Lily. But not like that. Not like that. [BEEPING] REESE: Finch, listen up. Trask didn't take those photos of Lily. - He stole them from the penthouse. - I know. He didn't plant the cameras either. Trask isn't the stalker. RICK: Didn't you like the flowers, babe? [GASPS] How did you get in here? I thought it could be you and me. LILY: Please go. I want you to go. RICK: Come on, baby. You know you don't want me to leave. Mr. Reese? We're gonna need a little help. [LILY GRUNTS] LILY: Get out of my apartment now. You don't mean that. Rick. Please. This has to stop. - The calls. The flowers - Those were a thank-you for our date. That wasn't a date. We were going to the same party. Heh, you're such a tease. You made me share a cab with you and then followed me. I'm just trying to help you. I could do so much for you in this town. Make you executive chef? I don't want to work for you. I want you to leave. The super told me to stay away from you. Did you tell him about us? Did you lie and say you don't love me? - No. - Why would you wanna hurt me? - Would you like it if I hurt you? - No! [LILY SCREAMING] All I've ever done is look out for you, Lily. It's time you showed a little gratitude. Let her go, Mr. Morris. [RICK GROANING] - I believe I told you to leave her alone. - Unh. [BOTH GRUNTING] [THUDS] [CAR DOOR OPENS] We got something. Break-in at a veterinary clinic in Connecticut. Reese's prints were on a prescription bottle found at the scene. Couldn't be telling me this while we drive? [POLICE SIREN WAILS] Anonymous tip, my ass. This has got to be some kind of joke. All right. Let's go. MAN: BP 90 over 50. Thready pulse, multiple fractures, bleeding internally. LILY: I told him that I wasn't interested. And And it was like something in him snapped. He became obsessive and, um, very unstable. He's been stalking me for months, but I was too afraid to tell anyone. - If Ernie hadn't shown up when he did - That wasn't nothing. Should've seen some of the guys they sent after me in Miami. You do not want to mess around with the Cuban Mafia. - Easy. MAN: Sorry, sir. Here. [REESE GROANS] - What's this? - Uh, Trask's gun. Oh, good. You know, his name isn't Ernest Trask. It's Ernesto Machado. He used to own six night clubs in Miami. A yacht. House in Coral Gables. And REESE: A pet tiger. - It was all true. - Even the part about it being bad for his health. He testified against the Cuban Mafia in 1996. Still a price on his head. - He's in witness protection. - That's why you couldn't find Mrs. Trask. She came with him from Miami, but without the houses and the clubs she didn't last long. She left him. Moved in with relatives in Boca Raton. How'd you find all that out? I'm good with computers. Be honest, Finch. There is no machine, is there? It's just you. I'll be ready when the next number comes. FINCH: Funny you should mention that [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] [ALL LAUGHING] CARTER: Gun! DEREK: Unh. - Drop it. Drop it. DEREK: Ah. CARTER: It's all right. N.Y.P.D. Everything's under control. [DEREK GROANS] [PHONE RINGING] - Get down. - Unh. FINCH [OVER PHONE]: That, Detective Carter, is what we do. Well done, my friend. Now, tell me. What on earth was it that made the machine pick out Kurzweil's number? You want me to pop the hood? Yeah, heh. FINCH: November 2002. This isn't the first item chronologically, but it's the one that triggered a harder look. INGRAM: A gas station receipt? FINCH: Eighteen of them. From a Shell station just outside Towson, Maryland. Kurzweil stopped there every third Thursday of every even month, even if he'd filled up the day before. On three of his 18 visits, this SUV was present two hours before. - A dead-drop. - The SUV was registered to the wife of a Turkish oil executive that paid for plane tickets used by an Iranian suspect in the bombing of a Jewish community center in Buenos Aires in 1994. The thinnest thread connects Kurzweil and his contact and the machine could see it. It knew. And it was right. It does this all the time, to all of us? That's terrifying. It's a good thing you're the only other person that will see this machine work. When it's complete, I'll encrypt the OS so completely that no computer on Earth will ever crack it. Does it bother you? I mean, what you've achieved is historic. But no one will ever know. It's the way it has to be. To be sure. - Sure of what? - That they'll use it the way I intended. You think the government would abuse this machine? [SCOFFS] Denton Weeks has spent the last six months trying to tunnel into the machine by way of the NSA feed. He's failed. But he'll keep trying. And he won't be alone. I don't want to think about what a man like Weeks would do with that power. That's why we keep anyone from getting their hands on it. You're sure it was Weeks? The machine told me. It has an instinct for self-preservation. INGRAM: You talk about that thing like it's alive. FINCH: Shh, it can hear you. [CHATTERING ON MONITOR]
FINCH: You are being watched. The government has a secret system. A machine that spies on you every hour of every day. I know because I built it. I designed the machine to detect acts of terror, but it sees everything. Violent crimes involving ordinary people. People like you. Crimes the government considered irrelevant. They wouldn't act, so I decided I would. But I needed a partner. Someone with the skills to intervene. Hunted by the authorities, we work in secret. You will never find us. But victim or perpetrator, if your number's up, we'll find you. REESE: Your coffee's getting cold, detective. - Nice suit. - Oh, you finally found me. But I don't hear any sirens or see you reaching for your gun. I looked for an "I'm sorry I got you shot" card but they were all out. I had no idea what Snow was capable of that he'd actually try to kill you. Why did you contact me, Carter? Got a lot of questions. Well, you managed to lose your tail. That's quite a feat. Those CIA boys spend a lot of time learning how to be invisible. You think Snow is my only problem? Is there another agency following you I'm not aware of? You've got an entire N.Y.P.D. Task force looking for you. I had to run two lights just to make sure my own people weren't trailing me. I'm a cop. Which means I got rules. Rules that can't be broken. But, um I wanna know more. Once you go down that road, there's no looking back. How are you getting your information? All I can tell you is we hear about people in danger. Or people who are causing it. Why me? Because your moral compass is pointed in the right direction. And because I'm tired of you chasing me. How does this work? Andrea Gutierrez? Civil litigation attorney with a sealed juvie record. I need it unsealed, Carter. What did I just say about rules? You have your rules and you have the chance to save a life. It's your choice. I'll be in touch. You look worried, Finch. Did your tailor move out of the city? How was your meeting with Detective Carter? You heard her. She wants to know how we get our information. - She can never know about the Machine. - I doubt if she'd believe it if I told her. She did agree to get us Andrea Gutierrez's juvie file. That's a step in the right direction. REESE: What else did you find out about our lawyer? Andrea Gutierrez, born and raised in Queens. Got her GED after dropping out of high school. Worked her way through college then SUNY New Paltz and Queens College Law where she studied civil litigation. REESE: She's a scrapper. ANDREA: Thank you. REESE: Ambitious. Just trying to make a better life for herself. Yes, but a better life can be expensive. She owes $50,000 in student loans and another 20 on her credit cards. REESE: That's a lot of debt. Maybe she borrowed money from the wrong person. FINCH: It's possible. She owes money on her business too. MAN: Excuse me. Sorry. She's trying to carve out a niche for herself by suing the state on behalf of inmates and ex-cons with grievances from their stay behind bars. REESE: How's that working out for her? [GROANS] She's 0-for-6. I imagine she hopes her current case will be lucky number seven. ATTORNEY: Objection, Your Honor. Relevance of this testimony? I'm trying to prove my client's only wrongdoing was not cleaning his apartment well. The drugs were old. Dusty. From the days before Mr. King was clean. Objection. Is Ms. Gutierrez testifying now? Judge O'Connor, this case is baseless. Just like every other ex-con nuisance case Ms. Gutierrez has brought before. Treat it as such. - Give me a break. - Ms. Gutierrez. I'm sorry, Your Honor. I just have a hard time taking the state seriously when it's wearing that tie. [ALL CHUCKLE] Let's adjourn while you two grow up. Get your witnesses in order. We'll reconvene on Friday. [GAVEL BANGS] [ANDREA SIGHS] I'll come see you tomorrow. - You'll bring Jacob? - You bet. This is so wrong, Andrea. I mean, I didn't even do anything. Remember about not communicating with anyone from the trial. - But he's my parole officer. - Not right now, he's not. Those drugs weren't mine. You tested me. Why don't you believe me? I just did my job, Terrence. Those drugs were in your place, that makes them yours. You should have been more careful. WOMAN: Thank you for calling DFS, how can I assist you? Pastrami from Zabar's? You must need something big. Terrence King's blood test. His parole officer did one and I need it to help me prove he wasn't using. CHRIS: Did you put in a request? ANDREA: Weeks ago, but [SIGHS] I'll look into it, Andi. Thank you. [WHISPERS] You better go. Boss lady's coming. Thought you were working through lunch, Chris not entertaining visitors. [IN NORMAL VOICE] She just came for a file. - Did you go through proper channels? - I did, Gloria. I swear. But those channels are so freaking slow. [MOUTHS] Sorry. [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] ANDREA: All right. To Poe, for finally getting his diploma. FINCH [OVER PHONE]: Did Ms. Gutierrez go home? REESE: She stopped for drinks with friends. [PHONE RINGS] I was worried you'd change your mind. Heh, not yet. I got your girl Andrea Gutierrez's, uh, juvie records. Teenage troublemaker. B and E her sophomore year and a string of larceny charges. REESE: Hold on, Carter. What is it, Lionel? Carter's up to something. Watch your ass. I appreciate your concern about my ass, Lionel, but I can handle Detective Carter. She's talking to someone and keeping it on the down low. Working something on her own. I'll keep that in mind. - You still with me, Carter? - Uh, yeah. Yeah, I'm still with you. - So, what do we do now? - We'll watch and wait. - And Carter? - Yeah. Thanks. I'm not sure that keeping both of our detectives in the dark is the best course of action. This could get really complicated. They're assets. The less they know the safer they'll be. Right now I'm more concerned with Ms. Gutierrez. MAN: Bye. - Okay. Finch, someone's tailing our girl. Someone other than you? [DANCE MUSIC PLAYING LOUDLY ON HEADPHONES] [BOTH GRUNTING] Mr. Reese. Mr. Reese, are you all right? Wishing gunshot wounds healed faster right about now. [REESE GROANING] Assailant's into anabolic steroids, unh. Where's Ms. Gutierrez? She's safe, for now. But with the way that guy handled himself I don't know for how much longer. [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] FINCH: Any guesses about who'd wanna kill our attorney? Guy who tried to attack her looked like he'd done time. Could be an angry former client. Excuse me. We need to get her files, see if the assailant is one of her clients. Narrow down our suspects. [PHONE RINGS] Yes. I'll be there as soon as I can. Half day, Finch? Stay close to Ms. Gutierrez. I'll be back soon. You cut your hair. Finally. Got new glasses. Finally. [BOTH CHUCKLE] You could use some rest before I lecture you on the perils of underground gambling. That'd be great. I've been up 48 hours. My cellmate snored like a freight train. Happy you're home, Will. Sorry you had to bail me out again. FINCH: Well, it's good to have you back, either way. [PHONE RINGS] How'd you get into my office without anyone noticing? Trade secret. Need you to help me to find out where to buy that steroid. What, you looking to beef up? It belonged to a guy I had a run-in with last night. Skilled fighter. Looking to track down the gym where he juices up. Are you having second thoughts? There's just a lot of prying eyes around this place. You're getting paranoid, Carter. That's a step in the right direction. [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] ANDREA: So you want to sue your boss. Wonderful. Uh We can absolutely do that, um What, uh? What type of work do you do? Uh, it's, um, complicated. Okay. How did you hear about me? A bailiff said "ex-cons with gripes against the state" is your specialty. - Is that bad information? - Um, no, not at all. It's just I thought you were a clear-cut civil case. The unicorn I've been looking for. Like the perfect man, heh. So - Aw, sorry. - Oh. - I'm all thumbs today. - I do it all the time. Um, I'll be back. Nicely done, Mr. Reese. I have a signal now. How was your appointment? Quite productive, thank you. Okay, here we go. Okay. So tell me, why do you wanna sue your boss? Well, my working conditions are, um unsafe. I slipped and hurt my back. ANDREA: Did that happen on the job? REESE: Just last night. Mr. Reese, I've got sound in both microphones. Connecting to her hard drive. I sent an e-mail virus promising 40 percent off any purchase at Bloomingdales. She couldn't resist it. So, what's this boss of yours like? Very manipulative. Secretive. We've had some personality conflicts. I take it he has a lot of money? - He's, uh, one of those rich loner types. - Hmm. The kind you'd call strange if he didn't have so much cash. So instead he's, uh, eccentric. Well, this case is gonna rack up a lot of hours. I can pay upfront. Then I can start immediately. Well, after my next appointment. I'm running late. I'll call you. I look forward to it. Daddy! TERRENCE: There he is. [LAUGHS] Oh. Chris did me a big favor by picking him up from the foster family's place. When are you coming home, Daddy? I don't like my room. Andrea's gonna get me out sooner than you know. ANDREA: That's right, buddy. Jacob, go over and, uh, hang with Chris for a minute, let me finish talking to Andrea. So, um - You get the blood test? - Chris is working on it. - But even if we get it TERRENCE: Right. They still found drugs in my house. Maybe we can get you tested at an independent lab. Prove you were clean. - It could help. - Whatever you need, I'll do. Look, I know I can't pay you. I know it's not looking good but thank you. [SIGHS] Everyone deserves a second chance. [PHONE RINGS] You found something. Brand name's Anadrol. It's a popular compound found in some MMA gyms. Turned up in buy-and-busts at three gyms in the boroughs. What are the locations? I'll tell you only if I don't wind up getting called to a crime scene. Understood? You have my word, detective. FINCH: Any sign of our assailant? Third location and still nothing. Could be our friend from last night decided to take the day off. Finch, I see him. Hey. Remember me? Yeah. [MAN GRUNTING] [HORN HONKING] REESE: Look out! Reese? Are you okay? Yes, but I can't say the same about the other guy. So much for not dropping any bodies. [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] Our dearly departed hit man, Alonso Garcia, was an ex-con. He served three years at Five Points for second-degree manslaughter. Andrea wasn't his representative. - Then what's their connection? - Terrence King. They share a parole officer named Dominic Galuska. REESE: Yeah, saw him at the courthouse. Maybe I should pay Mr. Galuska a visit see if this is more than just a coincidence. REESE [OVER PHONE]: I know what you're gonna say. I give you an address, and you promised me no one would get dead. And what happens? In my defense, Mr. Garcia didn't look both ways before crossing the street. How did you know the dead guy's name? We couldn't find any ID on him. It was on his driver's license. Heh, you stole a dead guy's wallet? He tried to kill Andrea Gutierrez last night. And he was gonna try again. Garcia had just under, what, 10 grand on him? My guess it's a payoff for a hit. Who'd wanna kill her? I'm working on it. LOU: I can't pay you this month, Galuska. If I don't get my cut, I bet I could find a dozen parole violations throw you back inside. LOU: That's ten percent, okay? DOMINIC: When I got you thisjob our deal was 30 percent of your paycheck. Don't you cheap out on me, Lou. REESE: Hey, Dominic! Where's my money? - Who do you think you're talking to? - The guy who's shaking down his parolees for their legit pay. [DOMINIC GRUNTING] See if you can find me a bottle of booze in there, will you? [GRUNTS] Thank you. MAN [OVER PHONE]: REESE: I'm Dominic Galuska and I may be a danger to myself and others. FINCH: Wow, the old loft. WILL: Yeah. Hadn't been here since the funeral. I thought you might come back to it someday. I'm packing some stuff up to send to storage. If there's anything you're interested in, let me know. Thanks. - You thinking about staying? - No, I'm thinking about selling the place. - Never really liked it much here. - Oh. It's where he moved after the divorce. Always seemed too big. Expensive, vacant. FINCH: Well, he worked a lot. Guess I can see how you might think that. Sorry, I forgot to ask. How's the insurance business going? Boring as ever, thank you. Have you had a chance to go through everything? Turns out Dad was a pack rat. Looks like half of it's mine. Projects, awards, papers from school. You always were an outstanding student. Have you thought about finishing your residency? WILL: I got plenty of action around the world with MSF, Red Cross. I didn't feel I was helping people. You're a doctor. All you do is help people. I treat symptoms. The disease after the fact. Never the underlying cause. I wanna really help people. I was just thinking how much you sound like your father. - Yeah. FINCH: Any chance I can convince you to stay? WILL: Sorry. FINCH: Don't leave without saying goodbye. WILL: I won't. [PHONE RINGS] You framed Galuska for making a death threat against one of his parolees? REESE: You said you needed evidence. - Not like that. If you don't want to interrogate him, Carter, I'd be happy to. - He's already in the box. REESE: Good. We need to find out if he's working with anyone. See if he sent anyone else after Andrea. CARTER: I know how to do my job, thank you. But I did find something interesting about Galuska. Several parolees who got sent back inside complained about him setting them up. Said Galuska planted evidence on them. What does he get out of it? I'm gonna find that out. In the meantime, can you try not to break any more laws? [PHONE RINGS] Hello, Lionel. Miss me? - Like I miss a hangover. - I've got a job for you. This about Carter? Because she's still acting all hinky. No, it's not Carter I'm concerned about right now. - It's someone else. - All right, what's this job? - John. Do we have an appointment? REESE: No, but I have a question. I was just assigned a new PO and he's being difficult. - His name's Dominic Galuska. - I know that guy. Total jackass. He keeps searching my apartment. There's nothing to find, but he keeps coming. If he shows up again, call me. I'll be there, any time of the day or night. On the clock, of course. How's that site working out for you? Heh, uh, it's hard to find the right guy in my line of work. Heh, that seems odd. You're very attractive, smart. Let me stop you there, John. I don't date my clients or ex-cons. Been there, done that. This is Andrea 2.0 you're looking at. Plus, I need your money and I like my guys not quite so better looking than me. Why did you stay in the town where you grew up? I mean, why not start fresh? Because I'm not running away from who I was. I was taught it's okay to make mistakes and I believe everyone deserves a second chance. - Threatening a parolee's life, Dominic? - This is some kind of misunderstanding. Just a little depressed, huh? You got a tough job. From what I'm seeing here, you're not very good at it. You've got the worst recidivism rate in your office. Kicked more guys back inside last month than I did. Some are saying they were set up. You know a criminal's motto, detective. "I didn't do it." You're doing a public service, Mr. Galuska. Hard work and crap pay. Which is why it's interesting you drive such a nice truck. My aunt passed away a couple of months ago. Left me some money. - Why do you care? - I care when people get hurt. Like your parolee Alonso Garcia. Guy got run over in Red Hook this afternoon. Couldn't have happened to a nicer guy. Did you know Mr. Garcia tried to kill Andrea Gutierrez two nights ago? Like I said, couldn't happen to a nicer guy. I can't for the life of me figure out what kind of grudge Alonso Garcia would have against Ms. Gutierrez. Can you? - I think I'm ready for my lawyer now. - Yeah. [PHONE RINGS] - How'd it go? - I'm sorry. Got a big goose egg on this. - Galuska walked. - Oh, no, you did great, Carter. While you two were having a chat, I got into his apartment. Borrowed his computer. You broke into his apartment? You said you couldn't do anything illegal. You didn't say anything about me. Mr. Galuska should know better than to protect his files with his birth date. That's a lot of money in the bank for a man who makes less than 50 grand a year. Each deposit coincides with when he sent one of his parolees back to prison. He's getting kickbacks from someone. Prisons are big business. The more inmates, the more funding. Mr. Galuska took out $9900 from his savings account three days ago. Anything over 10 gets flagged by the IRS. - He paid Alonso Garcia to kill Andrea. - Not the only withdrawal. There was another one in the same amount last night. - That means - He hired someone else to finish the job. [FLOORBOARD CREAKS] [BOTH GRUNTING] ANDREA: John! [GASPS] John, what is going on? I don't need your services anymore, Andrea. But I think you're gonna need mine. [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] FINCH: Mr. Reese, are you at the safe house yet? REESE: Heading there now. [ANDREA PANTING] Okay, what the hell? - You're in danger, Andrea. - Um, you think? Who was the guy with the gun? And who are you? Your back seemed just fine when you went ninja on that guy. I'm like you, I give people second chances. [PHONE RINGS] - You were never in jail? - Not in this country. Excuse me. FINCH [OVER PHONE]: Mr. Reese, an arrest report came in for the gentleman you apprehended in the law library. His name is Wendell Lentz and I've confirmed that he's one of Dominic Galuska's parolees. We need to make sure Galuska doesn't have more killers looking for Andrea. - What did I do? REESE: Galuska's getting money to set up his ex-cons and send them to prison. You kicked a hornet's nest with Terrence's case. Galuska may have planted those drugs in his home. Oh, my God, that means Terrence is actually innocent. - You weren't sure? - I wanted to be. Terrence was given a drug test the night he was arrested. It came back negative. Galuska and the Department of Corrections conveniently misplaced it. I never got a copy of the report. A little more digging, you'd have found the complaints filed against him. Parolees who said Galuska set them up. - I need to tell Terrence. - Stay here until I find out who else he may have hired to kill you and who Galuska's working for. Stay here. Lock the doors and don't open them for anyone. I take it you know how to use this? You grow up where I did, you know how to handle yourself. [REESE CHUCKLES] You're getting better at ditching your tail. Maybe you've got a knack for breaking the law. I've been going back through Galuska's files and found a pattern. In the past year, all the parolees he's busted were single parents. Which means their kids end up in foster care. Galuska wasn't getting paid for the parolees he was getting paid for their kids. - Each child is worth 800 bucks a month. Galuska's gotta be working with someone at DFS. DFS is a big agency. I'm gonna have a talk with Mary and Paul Kinsey the foster parents looking after Terrence King's kid. You're good at this, Carter. It's my job. And I didn't even have to shoot anyone to do it. CARTER: I just have a few questions, Mr. And Mrs. Kinsey. Promise not to take much of your time. - Something wrong? - I certainly hope not, ma'am. I see here you have six foster children under your care. - Is that still correct? - It is, yes. Okay. And, uh, Jacob King is one of those kids? This is about Jacob? Uh, he misses his dad, but he's adjusting just fine. Do you, either of you, know a man named Dominic Galuska? - No, who's that? - What about Gloria Copeland? She's the head of foster placement at DFS. Hmm, where do all six of the children that are under your care sleep? Because it looks to me like you live in a one-bedroom apartment. Not much space for six kids and two adults. [SIGHS] Okay, you tell me the truth now, or I arrest both of you for interfering with a criminal investigation. Jacob's the only child living with us right now. So the others on the list, Rebecca Johnson, Trey White Rebecca ran away months ago. Trey White and the other children, they The others don't exist. But I bet you're getting paid for all of them. Enough, Paul. You shut your mouth. [PHONE RINGS] Galuska's not smart enough to pull this off on his own. So he had to have a contact at DFS. And you are going to tell me who that person is. We want a lawyer. [PHONE RINGING] And our phone call. Don't go anywhere. - Who is this? FINCH: You know who, detective. I want you to give the Kinseys their phone call. You are interrupting me in the middle of an interrogation. Sounded like the end of an interrogation. They asked for their lawyer. How would you know that? Are you bugging my phone? I want you to give the Kinseys their phone call. Not until I find out who their contact at DFS is. We think we already know who that person is, detective. We've checked the DFS filings for the last six parolees that Galuska busted. The signatures on all six belong to one woman: Gloria Copeland. Yeah, but that's not enough evidence to arrest her. DFS is a mountain of paperwork. It'd take months to sort through it all. If the Kinseys tip her off, Copeland's gonna destroy the evidence. That's exactly what we want her to do. If we're gonna work together, detective, a little bit of trust is in order. REESE: Finch? Are you in? Just. Well, you need to move fast. Thanks for that news flash, Mr. Reese. Here I was, planning to move at a sloth-like pace and get myself captured. The scanner's installed, Mr. Reese. Was that fast enough for you? [REESE CHUCKLES] ANDREA [OVER PHONE]: Hello. WOMAN [OVER PHONE]: Will you accept a collect call from Metropolitan Detention Center, Brooklyn on behalf of TERRENCE [OVER PHONE]: Terrence. - Yes, of course. - What's wrong? - They're moving me to Attica tomorrow. - What? Why? - I don't know. But, look that's not a detention facility, that's maximum security. And I can't make it in there. I'm gonna file an injunction. We're gonna need help convincing a judge. - Okay. All right. - I'm gonna take care of this, okay, T? Right. FINCH [OVER PHONE]: We were right. The Kinseys must have contacted Gloria Copeland. She's begun shredding the documents. I'm getting the scans now. Every time Galuska sends one of his parolees back to prison Ms. Copeland uses the foster care paperwork to hide kids she's fabricated. She makes it look like the parolees have more kids than they actually do. This scam must be worth upwards of a quarter of a million dollars a month. We've got a problem, then, Finch. Gloria Copeland left work early. She isn't the one shredding the documents. Galuska's got a different contact at DFS. Andrea, what are you doing here? Terrence is being transferred to Attica in the morning. Oh. What do you want me to do about it? Call his caseworker, Chris. Tell her to contact the judge who made the order. The transfer is not in the best interest of the child. I can't do that. What's wrong with you? Why not? Because I'm the one that asked the judge to move him. You're working with Galuska. You know the shame of it, Andy? Turns out you're actually a pretty good lawyer. Not that anyone's ever gonna know it. [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] I'm running a handwriting analysis on the signatures of Copeland and Scollard. The R's in both names are identical. He forged her signature. Gloria Copeland had no idea what was going on. [ANDREA PANTING] Why would you do this, Chris? How could you betray all those families? Those kids were better off with foster families than with their convict parents. Terrence's son gave him a reason to stay clean. He got a job. A life. Who are you to take away their chance at being a family? I admire that bleeding heart of yours. I'd rather it bleed than stop beating altogether. [BOTH GRUNTING] [ANDREA PANTING] [GUNSHOT] [CHRIS GROANING] - He's getting away. - No, he's not. N.Y.P.D. Turn around, drop your weapon. Drop it! [GROANING] TERRENCE: You have no idea what this means to me. Yes, of course, I told you. Come here, buddy. [TERRENCE LAUGHING] I missed you, man. I missed you so much. - Um, I'll be right back. - Yeah, yeah. I read about your settlement with the state. Wrongful imprisonment, defamation of character. Don't forget violation of civil rights and malicious prosecution. You get 30 percent of 10 million dollars. Not bad. Maybe you can stop sneaking into NYU's library. I think I'm gonna start with a new pair of shoes. Besides, I like it in there. - Has a good vibe. - Even after you almost got killed? Well, I had you and your complicated job to save me. You ever think of having a less hazardous profession? Like mountain climbing or bear wrestling? Is it worth risking your life for people you don't know? You're not the only one who believes in second chances. Thank you. WILL: Hey, Uncle Harold. When you called, I assumed it was going to be goodbye again. No, not gonna sell the place. Not right away, anyway. You taking up your residency again? No, I'm done patching people up. And I wanna find out more about my dad. Look at this. This was the day you got into med school. He was so proud of you. Always was. Going through his things, I realize how little I really knew him. I think most fathers are a mystery to their sons. Well, most sons don't have the advantage of reading the unauthorized biography. Or all this. It's from the audit the lawyers did when he left me his half of his company. Most of it I don't understand. I get lost when it comes to computers. Like you, right? Right, ha, ha. But there's some things I do understand. Inconsistencies. Like, did you know he shut down IFT for nearly seven years? Yes, I knew that he downsized. He gave his employees severance and sent them packing. Why would he do that, heh? And look. Whatever it was he was working on, he sold it to the government for a dollar. So that means it was either something worthless or priceless. Did he ever talk to you about it? I mean, you were his closest friend. No. He never did. [PHONE RINGING] Where have you been, Finch? FINCH: I won't be back in the office today. Maybe you should take the day off as well. You wanna talk about it? Not particularly. REESE: You admit there is something going on. Something that you're worried about. - That makes me worried. - Well, you needn't, Mr. Reese. I hope you understand that there are certain things that I can't tell you. Oh, I understand completely, Finch. [PHONE RINGING] How's it going, Lionel? FUSCO [OVER PHONE]: I'm on that assignment you gave me. Gotta say, I should at least be getting cab fare for this. - This job ending any time soon? - As soon I get some answers.
FINCH: You are being watched. The government has a secret system. A machine that spies on you every hour of every day. I know because I built it. I designed the machine to detect acts of terror, but it sees everything. Violent crimes involving ordinary people. People like you. Crimes the government considered irrelevant. They wouldn't act, so I decided I would. But I needed a partner. Someone with the skills to intervene. Hunted by the authorities, we work in secret. You will never find us. But victim or perpetrator, if your number's up, we'll find you. Good morning, Mr. Reese. [GRUNTING] FINCH [OVER FEED]: Mr. Reese? [GRUNTING OVER FEED] Bit of a bad connection. Were you able to convince Mr. Billick to abandon his plan to kill his ex-wife? REESE: I'm working on it, Finch. Yeah, Finch, what is it? [GRUNTING CONTINUES] [REESE PANTING] I'm pretty sure that's a parole violation, Teddy. Hello, Finch. Billick and I just came to an understanding. Good, because we have a new number. I had a feeling you were gonna say that. I'm sending an address. Call me when you get there. MAN: You're sure he's the right guy? WOMAN: He's perfect. So, what's this guy's story, Finch? FINCH: Scott Powell, 38 he's a construction project manager for the city. Seems like a family man. His wife's name is Leslie, son is Owen, daughter Mia. My goodness. What are you working on there, a doggy? - A horse. - It's a horse. Of course it's a I knew it was a horse. I was just testing you. LESLIE: Hey, did you lose your watch? - Uh, no, it's around here somewhere. All right, guys, Daddy's gotta go to work. POWELL: Love you, baby. - Bye. Love you too. Be good. Are you still there, Mr. Reese? You ever crave a more conventional life, Finch? If by "conventional" you mean a life without the numbers it has crossed my mind. It looks like Powell has a pretty normal one. FINCH: If there's one thing our venture has proven, Mr. Reese it's that people are rarely what they seem. Finch, it looks like Powell's playing hooky. He's heading into a park. Could be meeting somebody. Are you up on his phone? REESE: I'm about to be. [CELL PHONE BEEPS] POWELL: Hi, yeah. Uh, I'm calling about the installer job you have listed in the paper here. MAN [OVER PHONE]: I'm sorry. That position's been filled. Oh, um, well, do you have any other positions available at this time or? [DIAL TONE] Finch, Powell's not skipping work, he's out of work. Yes. I'm just discovering that the city's employee directory is grossly out of date. A casualty of employee cutbacks. Cutbacks that put Powell out of a job eight months ago. Judging by the way he was acting with his family, they have no idea. That's a long time to go without a paycheck. [PHONE DIALING] - Uh, well, these flutes are silver plated. PAWNBROKER: And engraved. I ain't expecting another Leslie and Scott to come in. Look, I can't use any of this stuff. Now, if you have another watch, like you had last time [CELL PHONE RINGING] All of it for a hundred bucks. - Sorry. - Fifty. Look, pal, take your junk and clear out, all right? - Don't you call my stuff junk. - Hey, you want I should call the cops? No, man. Guy's ready to hit rock bottom. I ran Powell's credit, he's maxed out on his cards. With the exception of the one he shares with his wife, that's almost at its limit. Suspect he might be a threat? He just about took a pawn broker's head off for a few bucks. See if Carter can run a background check on this guy. - What about Detective Fusco? - He's handling another matter. I'll keep a close eye on Powell. Good. And I'm gonna wanna get a look at his home computer so I'll be joining you tonight. REESE: Really? - Ever been on a stakeout? - No, should I bring anything? Warm clothes, something to read and an empty water bottle. - Empty? - There are no bathrooms on a stakeout. REESE: He's gotten good at leading two lives. Unfortunately, they're on a collision course. - Hungry already, Finch? - No. And if I was, it wouldn't be for something with disodium inosinate. The can is made of aluminum. Its dimensions are perfect for capturing Wi-Fi radio waves. Okay. Point this at the house. His home Wi-Fi network has a WPA password protection. REESE: Can you crack it? FINCH: Just did. Spends a lot of time on political websites blogging about a congressman, Michael Delancey. Not a big fan of the congressman. This is interesting. Here's a big file, encrypted. [CELL PHONE RINGING] I'm gonna have to take this. I'll be right back. - Hello? MAN [OVER PHONE]: Mr. Powell? This is Work Time Temp Agency. You called us about an event staff position. POWELL: Uh-huh. MAN: We have a two-day job placement if you're still available. Absolutely, yes. MAN: They need you there at 12:30. That sounds great. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Looks like Powell's fortunes may be turning around. I hope so. But we still don't know why the machine gave us his number. [CELL PHONE RINGS] - Detective. - I looked up your guy. Nothing but a couple of traffic tickets and an application for a firearms license for a rifle. - Otherwise, he's clean. - I see. Okay, thank you. CARTER: Should I be worried about this guy? That's what we're trying to determine, detective. That file from Powell's computer it was a PGP-encrypted anonymous e-mail account. All these e-mails are addressed to Congressman Delancey's office. REESE: The same congressman that Powell had a beef with. Delancey pushed for the budgetary cutbacks that prompted city layoffs. He cost Powell his job. So why would Powell be working a fundraiser for Delancey? Does he own any registered weapons? Carter said he applied for a firearms license, a rifle. These are death threats, Mr. Reese. - Powell's not here for a job. - He's going to assassinate Delancey. [KNOCKS] FINCH [OVER FEED]: Did you find Powell? We need to get to him before he gets to the congressman. Sir? You need to come through the main line. Thanks. REESE: We've got a problem, Finch, Powell's already inside. GUARD: Pens, mobile phones, anything like that goes in the tray. Thank you, sir. Step through, please. We should get in there, then. [CHATTERING] You stay close to the congressman. Keep your eyes open and be ready to move. Move? If somebody starts shooting, what exactly do you expect me to do? You'll think of something, Finch. - Polls look good, Mike. - Thanks to your endorsement, senator. Do you remember Pete Matheson, my campaign manager? - Sure, you're doing a hell of a job. - Thank you, senator. REESE: Powell must be downstairs with the staff. - Are you with Delancey? - Close by. Listen, Mike, uh, as long as I've got you, let me ask you a favor. Back off the rhetoric, understand? Calling out large donors makes for great stumping but it also makes people uncomfortable. By "people" you mean you? Just keep it mind, congressman. We want you to have a long, long career. Listen, this is odd. Those threatening e-mails Powell sent the congressman they're being flagged by my system. HOST: Ladies and gentlemen, we'd like you to please take your seats. Thank you for joining us this afternoon. I'm Pete Matheson. [AUDIENCE APPLAUDS] You know, a few years back, my friend and business partner came to me and said, "I'm thinking of running for office." [CHATTERING] - Popular, I think we can all agree they have always been The IP addresses match, but there are big discrepancies in the TTL values. - The headers are failing to authenticate. - What are you getting at? Those anonymous e-mails didn't originate in Powell's laptop. They were copied on to it from a remote location. REESE: I'm more interested in finding the guy with the gun than fixing his computer. Congressman Michael Delancey. [CHEERING] DELANCEY: Thank you. Thank you. Thank you for coming. And thank you. The system's being hacked. Mr. Reese? DELANCEY: You know - Mr. Reese? REESE: Confetti. Powell's being set up. [GUNSHOT] [AUDIENCE SCREAMING] WOMAN: There he is! There! MAN: In the balcony! [SIRENS WAILING] I can't tell how badly the congressman is wounded. Yeah, I lost the real shooter. The e-mails, the job. - Powell was set up. POWELL: Listen to me. It wasn't me. I didn't do anything. - Why won't you listen to me? - The question is, by who? OFFICER: Put him in four. Follow me. ATKINS [ON TV]: This is a shocking and a tragic day. We're all just praying that he'll pull through, that's all. Whoever shot Delancey and framed Powell went through a lot of trouble. They had to hack his computer, spoofed his Internet search history and e-mails. They knew what information to manipulate so that he looked guilty to the police. - Fooled us. And your machine. No. The machine doesn't get fooled. If Powell isn't the threat, then he must be in danger. Well, he's the patsy, then. Maybe he wasn't supposed to make it out of the fundraiser alive. FINCH: Did you get a look at the shooter? Not a good one. But he was a pro. Deadeye shot with a pre-planned escape route. Different skill set than our hacker, so different people? We're looking at a team. First thing to determine is how the hacker got into his computer. This may take me a little time. I'll check on Powell. [CELL PHONE RINGS] You. I thought I could trust you. Your partner said I shouldn't worry about Powell. Then he shoots a congressman? The feds brought him into my precinct. He didn't do it. I was there. We got a banquet hall full of witnesses saying otherwise. - Right. Well, he was set up. - Set up? By who? We don't know yet, but we could use some help. There's not much I can do. The feds are running this show. They're taking him into interrogation now. REESE: I need to know what they're saying. - There's nothing I can do. Carter, it could help save an innocent man. I didn't shoot anyone. - It was your rifle found at the scene. POWELL: I don't own a rifle. ELLIS: It's registered in your name. POWELL: It must've been the guy ELLIS: Uh, which guy, exactly? The one you say attacked you or the one who worked there? POWELL: No. The guy who worked there, who took me up to the balcony to rig the confetti cannon. No one on the staff saw this guy and he's not in any security footage. He was right there. I saw him. He must've known where the cameras were. This whole thing is a setup. Did you call the staffing agency? ELLIS: There's no company named Work Time in the tristate area. POWELL: That's impossible. They called me. What about your gloves? Why'd they test positive for gunshot residue? - I don't know. I got them from the guy. - Right, right, the guy. [CELL PHONES RINGING] - You still there? - Yeah. What happened? Hospital just called. Congressman Delancey didn't make it. Powell's looking at murder one. - Les, it's me. - Oh, my God, Scott, where are you? - It's all a big mistake. - The FBI is searching the house. The news says you shot someone. No, listen, these things they're saying, Leslie, they're all lies. - Now, are the kids with you? LESLIE: Yes. Take them next door, okay? - Okay. POWELL: Now, listen. They're probably gonna ask you to go with them and answer questions. Now, Leslie Leslie, listen to me, you do what they ask, okay? Okay. - You have another computer? - No, what computer? - What's going on, Scott? POWELL: I don't know. I need you to trust me, okay? Everything's gonna be all right. - I love you. - I love you too. What is it? I think Powell could still be in danger. - How so? - In frame jobs, the decoy doesn't make it. If they're not taken out at the scene, they're eliminated soon after. Staged to look like a suicide or accident. Are you speaking from experience, Mr. Reese? The point is, it ties up the loose ends. [COMPUTER BEEPS] Here. I think I may have found a way to our hacker. - How? - A Trojan horse. - Hidden in one of Powell's e-mails. REESE: An invitation to a job fair? Powell RSVP'd, the Trojan was installed. It opened a port on his computer that allowed access. - I'm now installing that same Trojan. - You purposely infected your computer. No, I created a virtual system. The Trojan can still run and we can see where it leads. - Back to the hacker. FINCH: Yes. Wow. The coding is so complex, it's really clever. - But not clever enough. We're connected. - Can you get their location? No, the IP address is masked. But we can see what they're looking at. - Looks like a floor plan. - It's the federal courthouse downtown. Carter said the FBI was now running the Powell investigation. [CELL PHONE RINGS] If Powell is innocent, you need to come up with evidence, fast. - Is he still in your custody? - He was. The feds have him. REESE: Where are they taking him? - The courthouse for arraignment. - Why? What are you thinking? - Thanks. FBI's got Powell, but they have no idea they're dropping him off into the hands of the assassins. FINCH: What can I do? Send me the most direct route from the 8th Precinct to the courthouse. Doing it now. [ENGINE REVVING] Watch out, watch out! [POWELL COUGHING] You're the guy who tackled me. Who are you? One of the only people who know you're innocent. - What do you want? - Right now, get you some place safe. Safe? You just kidnapped me from the FBI. Go ahead, Finch. I've got Powell. I haven't been able to unmask the hacker's IP but here's a vulnerability in the firewall. Yes. Okay, now we're in. Never doubted you. Now let's see who's behind the curtain. - Wait, something's wrong. - What is it? We didn't hack in, we were let in. It's a honeypot. The program is sophisticated. They're using a worm to infect any devices connected to our private network. Including our phones. - They're listening. Destroy your phone. - Wait. You know how to find me. FINCH: Who are you? I'll take this one. Keep the change. - Thanks. - You're welcome. Here. Put these on. You're the most wanted man in New York. FINCH [ON RECORDING]: [CELL PHONE RINGING] FINCH: Mr. Reese. REESE: Finch, what the hell happened? FINCH: Afraid I underestimated our hacker. My equipment at the library is compromised. - So for the time being, I'm mobile. - Shh. Listen. I felt we might need extra help looking for Congressman Delancey's killer so I've called in a specialist. Someone with an intimate knowledge of the political arena. - Oh, here she is. I have to go. REESE: Wait a minute. "Specialist"? "She"? Finch? [FINCH CLEARS THROAT] - Hey, I reserved the room. - Take a study break. MAN: Nice work, dude. [GIRL CHUCKLES] Please. Thank you for meeting me on such short notice, Ms. Morgan. - I work when I'm needed, mister - Harold, please. - I am curious how you got my number. - A mutual friend. He assisted you on a delicate negotiation with a certain pharmaceutical company. So you're the guy on the other end of the phone. - How is John? - On the run, as usual. He's actually helping another one of our clients even as we speak. And in the same way that he was able to assist you we were hoping that you might be able to return the favor. I don't understand. One man took my husband away from all of you? We believe he's part of an armed group, possibly terrorists. Did your husband have any radical political views, Mrs. Powell? Terrorists? No. Scott would never be involved in anything like that. If you don't believe me, ask friends, co-workers. You know that your husband's been out of work for eight months? No. Scott goes to work every day. Have you taken a look at your finances recently? It seems pretty clear that you don't know your husband as well as you think, Mrs. Powell. Our client was at Congressman Delancey's fundraiser. - As a guest? - The shooter. He was framed. We're looking for the actual shooter. You boys certainly do like a challenge, don't you? I've come up with alternative suspects who wanted the congressman dead. Well, all of these people have been at each other's throats at some point. No, whoever killed Delancey, goes way beyond politics. Prior to running for office, Delancey owned a contracting company. DA's office has quietly been preparing an investigation into the company for several months. How do you know that? - Never mind. - The allegations were corner-cutting and payoffs to city inspectors. Strange for Delancey, considering his anti-corruption platform. It is. But he wasn't running the business. FINCH: Matheson. - Delancey's campaign manager. - And business partner. For two years, Delancey is in full-time campaign mode. Not really running the day-to-day of his business. So the bribes and the corner-cutting they must've happened under Matheson's watch. Unless he could say Delancey was really running things. Which he could, if Delancey wasn't around to defend himself. Even if this was true, we have no proof that Matheson had Delancey killed. Let's go get some. Excuse me. I'm sorry. No. Please. I'm sorry. Please. REPORTER: Is it true your husband killed him? Did he really kill him? I don't get it. Why would anyone wanna do this to me? They needed a patsy and you fit the role. They? Who's "they"? [FOOTSTEPS OUTSIDE] [YELLS] [GRUNTING] Come on. Let's go. MATHESON: We're all feeling terrible. Just make sure that everybody can stay as long as they want. I just gotta get back to the office, okay? Excuse me. - Mr. Matheson. - Look, I'm sorry. I've said everything I'm not a reporter. My name is Zoe Morgan. I helped a friend of yours, Jay Tanner, last year. Little matter of a paternity suit. Yes. I'm sure we don't need those services right now. Paternity suits aren't my specialty. Crisis management is. And right now I think that's exactly what you need. All right. All right, Ms. Morgan, why don't you tell me why I need you? One, your pending investigation with the DA's office. - I have lawyers. - The killing of your business partner. Congressman Delancey. - Excuse me? - Delancey would've testified that you were the one behind the shortcuts. Payoffs. Now that he's dead, you can lay the blame on him. Who do you think you are? Your partner was gonna burn you, so you burned him. I get it. But your vendor? Your vendor dropped the ball. The man that you set up is missing in action. You know, if you're gonna do something wrong, do it right. I can find Powell. Bring him to you, whomever you like. - For a price, of course. - I don't know what you're referring to. And I think it's time that you leave. Keep the card. Might come in handy. WOMAN: I thought I was clear on how this works. I call you, not the other way around. I hired you because I thought you could handle this. WOMAN: And I am. Then why is Powell still alive? You assured me of your abilities and right now I am not seeing any of them. WOMAN: I could have every e-mail you've sent contact called and password you've used. I can empty your bank accounts, liquidate your stocks and even send your ex-wife the location of your house in Bermuda. All right. Stop it. Stop it. You've made your point. WOMAN: Powell and his friend will be taken care of. You just make sure to have my final payment ready. [CELL PHONE RINGS] WOMAN: Where are you? MAN: I'm headed downtown. WOMAN: The client's getting nervous. They just dropped into the subway at 23rd and 8th. Got it. REESE: It's a transmitter. - That's how the guy found us. Could've planted it today, maybe sometime earlier. Probably at your house. They've been to my house? Whoever is behind this left little to chance. But I need you to stay focused, Scott, so I can get you back to your family. I doubt I've got a family to go back to right now. I know about your job. I know about the money, the lies. I know what it's like to live inside a lie. Live there for so long it feels like there's no way out. But there always is. I just needed a little more time, you know? To get a job, to get on my feet. I was gonna tell Leslie. - But now it's too late. - No, it's not. We're gonna get you out of this. These people they killed a congressman. Are you gonna promise me that they won't kill us too? I didn't think so. I need to talk to my wife. - Now. - That's not possible. Not right now. - We need to keep our heads down. - I could die. And the person who I love most in life would think that I'm nothing more than a killer. Do you have any idea what that feels like? Actually, I do. Of course, in my case it was true. Now, come on. Let's go. [BEEPING] [CELL PHONE RINGS] - Carter. - Hello, detective. What the hell were you thinking, taking down a prisoner transfer? It worked. Listen, I need a favor. Powell needs to talk to his wife. Now. Are you crazy? You know the feds are up on her phone. He needs this, Carter. Mrs. Powell? Did you leave your kids with your neighbor? - Yes, is something wrong? - No, uh, they're just calling to check in. Follow me. LESLIE [OVER PHONE]: Hello? - Hi, Leslie. Hi, it's me. Scott? Where are you? I'm okay. Listen, Leslie. I'm really, really sorry. Oh, my God. Scott, did you shoot that man? No. No, of course not. You gotta believe me, Les. Do I? You've been out of work for eight months. Scott, what have you been doing every morning? Looking for work anywhere and everywhere. And our credit cards? - Our savings? - I know, babe. I know. Why, Scott? Because I couldn't I couldn't tell you that I was fired. - I thought we told each other everything. - I know. Listen, Leslie. I'm gonna make this right, I promise. - Tell her the rest in person. Need to move. - I gotta go. I love you. Scott? [BEEPING] [BEEPING FASTER] [GRUNTING AND YELLING] - Excuse me. My name is Scott Powell. - Stay where you are. Do not turn around. Raise your hands. OFFICER 1: That's him. Let's go. Transport's waiting outside. OFFICER 2: Got it. [CELL PHONE RINGING] WOMAN: Is it finished? Not quite, but I suspect it will be soon. [PAGER BEEPS] MATHESON [ON COMPUTER]: I hired you because I thought you could handle this. WOMAN: And I am. MATHESON: Why is Powell still alive? You assured me of your abilities and right now I'm not seeing any of them. There. All right, folks, keep it back, please. REPORTER 1: Sir! Glad to be home, sir? REPORTER 2: How'd you do it? REPORTER 3: Police say you're guilty of murder. REPORTER 1: Glad to be home? REPORTER 4: What will you do in reaction to this? Zoe. John. I hear we have you to thank for catching Matheson. Glad I could help. Although, there is a matter of payment. Buy me a drink? REPORTER 3: - Did you get out? REPORTER 5: Did you miss your wife? - I did miss my wife. You once told me about a guy who could say two words that would make the reporters go away. Ever figure out what he said? POWELL: That's all I have to say. REPORTER 6: Do you know who that is? [CELL PHONE RINGS] I see that Mr. Powell has been released. - Still has a long road ahead of him. FINCH: Indeed. But I suspect that soon he'll be on his way back. I control a company that's decided to build a new facility in New York. They could use a man like Powell overseeing things. - That's noble of you, Finch. - Hardly. I just value good people, Mr. Reese. REESE: You follow up on the hacker? She seems to cover her tracks as efficiently as you do. I was able to trace the signal to an address which the FBI received by way of an anonymous tip. Sadly they were too late. It seems the hacker was using the dorm room of an unsuspecting college student who had been on winter break. I need to determine the damage to my system. I'll contact you when another number comes up. Take care, Finch. Next time.
FINCH: You are being watched. The government has a secret system. A machine that spies on you every hour of every day. I know because I built it. I designed the machine to detect acts of terror, but it sees everything. Violent crimes involving ordinary people. People like you. Crimes the government considered irrelevant. They wouldn't act, so I decided I would. But I needed a partner. Someone with the skills to intervene. Hunted by the authorities, we work in secret. You will never find us. But victim or perpetrator, if your number's up, we'll find you. OPERATOR: 911, what is your emergency? MAN 1: I got a flat tire. WOMAN: They won't turn their music down. MAN 2: I just know he's sleeping with her. DARREN: Please help me. It's my brother, they shot him. Please send someone. RECORDING: We're sorry. All circuits are busy. Nobody here. I've never seen you like this. - That hacker must've gotten to you. - Only the paranoid survive. Sage advice. Well, I'll need to rebuild all my systems from scratch reinforce the firewall. - Anything I can do? FINCH: Yes. New number. - Just came in this morning. - Even with the library offline? His name is Darren McGrady, 14 years old. That's his last known address. You better get started. Hey, Finch. Any chance your machine gave us the number a few days late? No. Why? REESE: I had to crawl through police tape to get inside Darren's apartment. The library may have been compromised, but I assure you the machine was not. Whatever happened there, Darren's situation must be ongoing. Looks like a home invasion. So whose blood is on the floor? KEACH: Hey. Who are you? Detective Stills. - You the super? - That's right. - Little late for the party, aren't you? - Mind telling me what happened here? What it looks like. One of my tenants got shot. About a week ago. Older kid, Travis McGrady. Damn shame. Real good about paying rent on time. Travis had a younger brother, Darren. - What happened to him? - I don't know, cops took him with them. Hey, when can I clean this place up and get a new tenant in here? Morning, detective. - Miss me? - You know, I always pictured you in the back of my car in handcuffs. Well, to each his own. Any luck pulling that file? Travis McGrady. Took two shots to the chest, point-blank. Three black males were seen fleeing the building. What about Darren? CARTER: Came home right after it happened found Travis bleeding out. - Says here he called 911. Yeah, it took half an hour for first responders to show up. - Travis was already dead. - What happened to the parents? No father in the picture, mother died of renal failure three years ago so Travis was Darren's legal guardian. - And now he's got nobody. - Any idea where he is now? - Missing. Kid waited all night at the precinct for Child Services. When they didn't show up, he just up and walked out. - I need to track him down. Fast. - Hey. Ever gonna tell me how you and your friend pick the people you're chasing? All right, I'll talk to the detective assigned on the case. See if there's anything he left out of that report. Like how he lost the kid. Since when does a Homicide task force want in on a shooting in Crown Heights? Don't you have something high-profile to work? Like that guy who's kneecapping everybody. Chief of D's wants to polish CompStat numbers. Ordered us to climb on any open cases. Okay. It goes like this. Last Friday, the victim was working at the, uh Travis, right? His name is Travis? Right. Well, this Travis he's working the late shift at the Thighs & Fries. Got into an altercation with three males over some waitress. Somebody got frisky, Travis went at him, tossed him out of the joint. Same three guys seen later fleeing his apartment building. Figure they left the restaurant followed Travis on his way home from work, you know the rest. The little brother, he said, uh, they took his work hat. Any leads on the suspects? Waitress give a description? - Anything? - In that neighborhood? Are you kidding? Ain't nobody gonna dime out those thugs. Any progress on finding the brother, Darren? I don't have time to chase every kid who can't sit still. Of course not. When I find him I'll let him know you were a big help. REESE: Sounds like Darren's brother picked a fight with the wrong crowd. If they think Darren saw anything that night they'll be looking to silence him. So we don't have a clue who the shooters are? REESE: Witnesses can ID the shooters they're just too scared. - Why would they wanna talk to you? I have my ways. Excuse me. Lisa? Sorry, I'm running late. I already told the police everything I know about Travis and those guys. I'm not a cop. I'm looking for Darren McGrady. Travis' little brother. - I'm sorry, I can't help you. - I know you're afraid. Like I'm sure Travis was scared when he stuck up for you against those thugs. But he did it anyway. Those guys come in there all the time, grabbing and hollering. I don't know what the hell he was thinking. He cared for you. Just like he cared for his little brother, Darren. The guys that killed Travis may be coming after Darren now. I need your help tracking them down. - Look, I wanna help, but - You don't have to give me a name. Just point me in the right direction. Guy like you, coming out of shadows, looking for bad guys? You'd fit right in at the comic book store. Couple blocks that way. They hang out there. Thanks. WILCOX: Okay, kids. Free comics. There you go, one for you. How about that. Hey, good to see you again. You all right? Say hi to your mom. Mr. Wilcox, what's this dude's superpower? He got no costume, no cape. Because being a superhero is not about a cape or cowl. It's about protecting your fellow man. Looking out for him when no one else will. Look at the detail on that. Uh Excuse you. Carter. I may have found one of our shooters. Corner of Crown and Albany, headed south. CARTER [OVER PHONE]: I'm two minutes away. Be right there. REESE: Finch, I got eyes on Darren. FINCH: Is he safe, Mr. Reese? REESE: Not for long. DARREN: Yo, Brick. - Take off that hat. - Who do you think you're talking to? One of the spineless punks that killed my brother. Shot him dead in our home. Want me to show you how to use that thing, little man? [GUNSHOT] Man, what the hell you doing? Get off of me. - Get off. - This fool's good as dead. - I won't miss. Drop your phone. DARREN: Give that back. DARREN: Get off me, man. Hey, don't worry, man. This ain't over. I'm gonna kill you and the rest of your crew. - We'll see. My boys will look for you. - I see you made friends, as usual. REESE: Found our missing kid. I gotta get him out of here. - He's your murder suspect. CARTER: Get down on the ground. Put your hands behind your head now. [SIRENS WAILING NEARBY] - Where you going? - Gotta get him somewhere safe. Sorry. WOMAN [OVER RADIO]: All units, please respond to shots fired in the vicinity of Crown and Didn't know cops could pick and choose which calls to answer. - Never said I was a cop. - So, what are you, then? One of these days, I'll come up with a good answer for that one. It's a nice piece, considering you bought it off the street. - Where'd you get the cash? - Pawned a TV, sold some stuff. Saw you play the trumpet. I'm guessing you pawned that too. - You any good? - What do you think? My brother wanted me to go to music school. Instead of getting mixed up with the thugs. And here you are, mixed up with the thugs. So you tracked down that Brick kid. You think that's what your brother would've wanted? Saw him wearing that hat like it was some type of scalp. - It wasn't right. - I'll take care of it. You? [SCOFFS] How? Wait a minute. Where we going? Darren, this is Detective Fusco. He's a friend. - This guy? - Yep. - Aw, hell, no. - What's your problem, half-pint? You're a dirty cop all day long. All right, look. First you got me investigating our mutual friend now I gotta babysit this disrespectful punk? I have a day job. Carter's gonna start asking more questions. You leave Carter to me. - Now, is this place safe? - Yeah, she likes to help kids. She hates paperwork. She takes in strays all the time. I'm not a stray. - He'll be safe here. - Good. I'll be back. Until then, he doesn't leave your sight. - Yo, you really gonna leave me here? - Not for long. Gotta return a vehicle. REESE: "Brick." Bad luck, you walking around wearing a dead guy's hat. - Where'd you get it? - Found it. - Where? - In the street. I liked the way it fit. Yeah, well, that hat is in the lab right now. DNA always tells the truth. - Better for both us if I heard it from you. - Takes three months to get those results. So either we're gonna get cozy in here or you can just give me my phone call now. Phone's busted. Budget cuts. - You know how these things go. - Whatever. You can't hold me if you can't charge me. Yeah, that's right, you've done all this before, right? Yeah, you're right about one thing. You'll get out of here. When I take you to your arraignment. [CHATTERING AND CHEERING] [CELL PHONE RINGS] REESE: You trying to reach your friend Brick? Hello, Curtis. REESE: Nice cars. Cash in envelopes? These guys aren't street thugs, Finch. They've got some kind of operation. Any way to run the plates? I'm still rebuilding the drives, I had to make a hardware run. If all goes well, we're looking at a couple hours. REESE: Good. I'll check with Detective Fusco. - Is everything all right, Finch? FINCH: Just fine, Mr. Reese. [KNOCK ON DOOR] Mr. Wren? A man is here to see you. A Mr. Ingram. Of course. Bring him in, please. Will. How are you? I'm well, Uncle Harold. As are you, evidently. - Business must be booming. - Happily, yes. In the insurance business the fewer bad things that happen the more money we make. Let me tie up a few loose ends. - Then we'll go to lunch. - Take your time. I almost finished sorting through dad's stuff. Anything interesting? One or two things I'm sure he wanted you to have. Mostly, it was boring stuff, except Except for this, which is just strange. "Day one, the machine. February 24th, 2005." - It's interesting, isn't it? - Is it? I'm looking into that period when Dad shut down operations at the company. This was right in the middle of that. Obviously, he was celebrating something, but what, a machine? The machine? I wouldn't know. You know your dad. Any excuse for champagne. I guess you're right. There's still one person I think of who might know. You probably know her too. Alicia Corwin? No, I don't think so. Hers is the only name in any of the files during that blackout. And she worked for the White House. I guess they were in touch about something. - Have you been in contact with her? - Wasn't easy. After she quit her job at the government a year ago, after Dad died she moved to this remote town in West Virginia. Green Bank. - Never heard of it. - Me neither. Turns out it's the only place in the U.S. That doesn't have cell phones or wireless Internet. Apparently, they do something to the radio telescopes. Are you sure you're not chasing shadows? Maybe. Except for one thing. Remember that contract Dad signed with the government for $1? It's the next day. February 25th, 2005. Wow. Well, that is something. I'm finished here and I'm starving. Let's get out of here. [CELL PHONE RINGING] FUSCO: Detective Fusco. You're kidding me. When? [CELL PHONE RINGS] - Hello, Lionel. FUSCO: I got a call from the group home. Darren's missing. What do you mean? I told you to check on him. Been checking every hour. Why do you think they called? Kid must've walked. Kid's got a habit of doing that. FUSCO: For the record, this one's not my fault. I'm too busy playing private investigator for you. - And how's that going? FUSCO: Interesting. Tell you when I know more. What are we gonna do about this kid? I think I know where he might be headed. Yo, Hops and Barley. Looking for a couple punks. Curtis and Trim. You know them? - Say what? - You heard me. Curtis and Trim. - I'm calling them out. - Trying to get yourself killed Scrappy-Doo? - You're beginning to wear my last nerve. You might be scared of them, but I'm not. - You about to get tossed, dwarf. - Not unless you care to follow him. Why not let the kid go? And if I don't? Boom. Pow. Yo, now, that was some straight-up Shaolin and Wu-Tang whoop-ass. - What kind of fighting style is that? - You're a smart, talented kid, Darren. You gotta promise me that you'll stop looking for these guys. It's too dangerous for you out there. - What's this? - It's all I got left. I wanna hire you to help me take down those guys. So if I'm not a cop, I'm a mercenary, is that it? No. I figured it out. You're a ronin. - A ronin? - Yeah, a ronin. It's like It's like a samurai with no master. Technically, you should've killed yourself. That's the code. But instead you're out wandering the land, helping people. So now I'm paying you to help me. I'm not for hire. You can't stop me going after them. But I have a better chance with you there. There's no way to convince you to just lie low, huh? - All right. You can keep your money. - No, man. - Take it. It makes it official. - No. If we're gonna do this, we're gonna do it my way. That means no killing. This is my going rate. All right, man. Deal. Look, you're working for me, I ought to know your name. Well, you can call me Reese. TRIM: What's he doing, man? Yo, yo, hey. Keep your dirty ass away from my clean car. Yo, I didn't hire you to just sit here and watch. When are we gonna take them down? We've already started. Step one: Observe. The most efficient way to lose a fight is to act without knowing your enemy. TRIM: Oh. Pay day, old man. - It's all there, 300. - That's protection. Where's the rest? Oh, come on, guys. If the state found out I sell those tickets, I'd lose my lottery business. Tickets? They're running numbers through local shop owners. They take all the money. Tax-free. The cops know about this or they don't care? Probably giving them a cut to turn a blind eye. TRIM: You short Andre, you lose a lot more. - Who's Andre? - I don't know. These cops let these guys do whatever they want. Kill my brother, walk around like they can't be touched. But now we know how they're making their money. - So they just got a lot less untouchable. DARREN: Ah. Observe. Tell you the truth, I've always hated observing. Wait here. CURTIS: You paying up or we got a problem? Hurry up, Pops. CURTIS: Just a couple more to go, man, we'll be good. [CAR ENGINE STARTS] TRIM: Oh. Whoa, whoa! That's my car! [CELL PHONE RINGING] REESE [OVER PHONE]: That was step two, kid. Meet me at the corner of Rutland and 52nd. What's up, man? Where's Trim's car? Strategically stored. Just needed to shake them up a bit. See what comes loose. Cool, cool. [CELL PHONE RINGS] I need GPS on their cell. FINCH: Just a minute. I'm not in favor of your troubling arrangement with young Darren. I'm not sure if I'm in favor of our troubling arrangement. Especially when you disappear on mysterious business. GPS is up, Mr. Reese. - Who you talking to? - Tech support. Come on. Hey. You ever kill anyone? - Yes. - Were they bad? Some. Not all. Some? That means your master tricked you. Told you to kill bad people that really weren't. Lot of ronin ended up that way. CURTIS: Know what I think, T? I think your ride's gone, yo. TRIM: Shut up, Curtis. So Step three? To impose your will on your enemy, make for their weak points. Ah. Talking Art of War. You read Sun Tzu? Of course, man. All samurai know Sun Tzu. CURTIS: Come on, man. Just get a new car. Call for the insurance. What insurance? You were with me when I stole the damn thing. Yeah, but you bought those rims. They might replace those. - Get your dumb ass up. - Man, chill, man. Go get your grandma's beater. Meet me at Andre's. - Big money run tonight. - Steps four and five. Find the boss and figure out how to hurt him. Come on. WOMACK: What's the story on that banger you're holding? You got a charge yet? CARTER: His name came up in a shooting, I'm just waiting for a photo packet. We have until tomorrow to arraign him. - I'm still collecting evidence. - You're reaching, Carter. If that kid's not arraigned by 5, I want you to kick him. DARREN: Yo, Reese, there's Trim. What's he doing back here? WILCOX: Now, remember, it's not about the superpowers. It's about who protects you. Who keeps you safe. Go on home. Damn, they got Mr. Wilcox selling those tickets too? I'm not sure it's that simple. You're late. Had a little car trouble, Andre. That's Andre? The higher up you go, the harder it gets to tell the good guys from the bad. TRIM: Police still got Brick? - Let me worry about Brick. What's with the beater you rolled up in? Uh, it's my grandma's. - You gonna move half a million dollars TRIM: That's why we got it. Switching up cars, switching up the routes. Just to be safe. I still smell you lying a mile away. TRIM [OVER PHONE]: No, for real. - The cops got Brick WILCOX: Don't need to worry about Brick. All you worry about is me. Do whatever I tell you. Get me whatever I want. And right now, I want my damn money. In Brighton Beach. Tonight. Now, y'all mess that up, I will kill you both. Now we know who's weak, who's in charge and how to hurt them. What's step six, man? Well, that's the fun part. Come on. [HIP HOP MUSIC PLAYING ON CAR STEREO] Yo, you think Brick's gonna talk? Brick is cool. Andre will protect him. Andre will take care of all of us, long as we take care of him. Yo, Trim, ain't that your ride? Found your car. [BOTTLES CLANKING] [COPS CHUCKLING] Son of a bitch. Wrong place to sleep it off, buddy. CARTER: You and I need to talk. REESE: In the middle of something, Carter. - I heard about your little traffic accident. What have you gotten that kid mixed up in? Don't worry, he wasn't in the car. That boy is a minor. You're responsible for his welfare. You still have Brick? Yeah, Womack thinks I released him this morning. What about that other guy you slammed into last night? REESE: He's about to debrief us on Travis McGrady's murder. REESE: You can scream if you want. Kiss my ass. - Where'd you dump the gun? - What gun? The gun you used to kill Travis McGrady. Travis who? This money is supposed to be in Brighton Beach. Trouble is, it's here with you in Crown Heights. Andre's gonna kill you. Do you really think Andre would believe your story? If I were Andre, I'd assume you stole every dime. I'd send people in to find it, then kill you. So the only way you're gonna survive is if you come back with every last dime. So who killed Travis McGrady? Right now, your life is worth a half a million dollars. Twenty thousand of it up in smoke. Where's the gun, Curtis? Fifty thousand dollars of your life up in smoke. Andre's gonna believe me. Let's find out. CURTIS: What? No! Stop, stop, stop. Where's the murder weapon? Chimney on top of my grandma's building. It better be. ALICIA [OVER RADIO]: Hello, Will. Long time. WILL [OVER RADIO]: Thanks for meeting me, Alicia. Maybe we should go to a cafe, a bar, somewhere warm? You don't mind, I prefer it outside. I'm so sorry I couldn't make your father's funeral. I really wanted to be there, it was just a Difficult time for me. He was such a lovely man. Just wish I'd known him better. Here. It's why I wanted to meet you. I found it in his things. Wondered if you knew anything about it. He signed a contract with the government the next day for $1. For what, I don't know, it just said "Services." But I'm pretty sure it had to do with the work he was doing at IFT while they were closed. I hope you can tell me. Are you really sure you wanna know? Yes. I do. IFT was about to fail. Your dad's investments had backfired. His R and D had produced nothing for years. He came to me for help. I persuaded the government to bail him out in exchange for some of IFT's patents. That's what this is about? A dollar for Dad's patents? I'm afraid so. Wait, so this is about the government helping him or screwing him. But why drink champagne? And what does it mean: "The Machine"? Crushed by The Machine? ALICIA: I suppose, yes, in a way he was. Crushed by the machine. Going through a divorce, his company collapsing. Your dad was in a dark place. I know it must be tough to think of his final days that way, but let it go, Will. You sound like my uncle Harold. I do? Who's he? My dad's best friend, Harold Wren? Are you sure you two never met? No. We haven't. I have to go. I'm sorry I couldn't be more help. WILCOX: My delivery was intercepted, captain. I'm missing two couriers. Half a million in Brighton Beach money. I need your help. - You're on your own. - This was out of my control. Force majeure is not covered by our protection. Our associates blame you for this debacle. - Fix it fast. - I'll handle this right. On my own. I'm confident in your success. I need something from you. My employee Brick is being held by your people without a charge. I need you to get him out. Unless that's not covered by your protection. I'll see what I can do. How are you, detective? - That's a friend of yours? - Yeah. - You still have that suspect in holding? - I was just about to let him go. You should've done that hours ago. Not a bright move. Release the suspect now. Thanks. DARREN: Sorry I thought you were a cop. REESE: Nothing wrong with cops. Just bad ones. That's right, look. Something metal right there. We got them, kid. It's over. I got the evidence. My friend on the police force will be able to put Brick and his friends away. Yeah, but what about Andre? He's still out there. Andre didn't kill your brother. Now you want to go after him too? Yeah. He's just as to blame. Then what? Hmm? Go after Andre's bosses? The corrupt cops and the politicians that let them operate? You won't be able to stop until you destroy everyone you blame for taking your brother's life. It won't bring him back. You'll just wind up in jail or dead. You think that's what your brother wanted for you? [CELL PHONE RINGS] There you are. REESE [OVER PHONE]: Anonymous tip just came in, detective. Got you the murder weapon. - Go ahead and charge Brick. CARTER: That's gonna be difficult. I just released him ten minutes ago. - Brick's on the street? - Womack forced my hand. He'll be able to ID Darren to Andre. All the more reason to get that kid off the street now. Don't worry, I'll get you the gun along with the kid. REESE: Darren. - What's going on? Carter, you're gonna say, "I told you so." REESE: Finch, Darren's run off. Probably to go after Brick again. This time he's got the gun they used to kill his brother. In other words, the idea of letting a 14-year-old hire you to avenge his brother has backfired? REESE: You can lecture me later. - I need you to bring me the bag. - Which bag? The one labeled "Plan B." - Hey. You need backup? - I don't know. Do I? Something to do with that fish the captain made you throw back. It might. I got a tip. You wanna go fishing? Yeah, sure, why not? [CHATTERING] That's the kid? Darren, right? Yeah, I recognize you. We got something to talk about, right, you and me. Wow. Darren's in there. Relax, Finch. It's bean bag rounds. Riot ammo. I told the kid no killing. On my signal, you're gonna cut the power to the building. That was the signal, Finch. That's pretty brave of you, coming in here like that. And I get it, I do. My man took someone from you so you here to take him from me. So go ahead and shoot him. He's the one that screwed up in the first place. Even put us in this situation. So you doing me a favor. - Yo, Andre. - Shut your mouth. I see you got it in you. Yeah, you got that conviction. It's a hard quality to find around here. So you go ahead and pull that trigger. You should come work for me. You young enough, by the time you Brick's age you'll be running these streets for me, son. Ain't nobody gonna touch you. You know why? Because you smarter than the rest. Now, you made it all the way here. Go ahead and claim that reward. Claim it. Come on, come on now. I thought that might happen. I don't blame you. I blame the store. Kids spending their days reading these revenge stories selling it like it's reality. But you know the thing about comic books? They just comics. [WILCOX GASPS] What the hell is that? What the hell is that? Move! Go around back. DARREN: Yo! CARTER: N.Y.P.D. Drop your weapon. [CARTER GRUNTS] [WILCOX GRUNTS] FUSCO: Get down, kid! Fusco? [FUSCO GROANS] Fusco. You okay? Yeah, just peachy. [INDISTINCT CHATTERING] OFFICER: Watch your head. FUSCO: Whatever you got to say, save it. I can already see the ass cake when I get back. No, man, actually, I just wanted to say thank you. For saving my life. You're welcome, kid. Come on, let's go. Get me out of here. [FUSCO GROANS] Take it easy, will you? Just when I thought you were sticking around. Manhattan, you know. Got a little claustrophobic. And a job's come up in Sudan. I'll be sorry to lose you again. That woman, I've forgotten her name. Did she tell you what you wanted to know? Alicia Corwin. She told me some stuff. Don't know if it's what I wanted to know. You know, I had Dad on a pedestal. Loved him, hated him, but always admired him. Hard to believe he was an ordinary guy. Made mistakes like everybody else. Well, whatever she told you, there's one thing you should know about him. Any time anyone ever asked him what his proudest achievement was he always said that it was you. Thank you. FINCH: Take care of yourself. WILL: Yeah. You know, Fusco tells me they got a lead on a foster family. I had a family. Darren, we don't get to choose what happens to us. Just what we do about it. I looked into them. They're good people. And if they aren't? I'll take care of it. I'm, uh, still on the clock. I'm still working on it, but here. This is yours. REESE: Would you look at that. Always wanted a sidekick. Thanks. Which, uh, reminds me. I pulled some strings. You'll be starting at that charter school. - For the arts. - My trumpet. - They got drawing classes too. - Is that right? Remember, opportunities multiply as they're seized. Sun Tzu. Right. Hey, don't worry, man. Someday you'll find a home too. Thanks. [KNOCK ON WINDOW] Come on, kid, they're waiting for you inside. DARREN: All right, man. What's up, Fusco? Hey, man. I think you're gonna need a bullet in that other cheek to even out that limp. Good to see you too. Hi. Come on. He's a good kid. - Think he'll be all right? REESE: He's a tough kid. It's a good thing we showed up in time, you know? You're cutting it close with Carter. She's still looking for you. Like I said, you let me worry about Carter. Any news on that other thing? Yeah. He's got so many aliases I didn't even know where to start. Oldest one I could find was a Harold Wren. He's an underwriter for an insurance company for years. Before that, MIT student, top of his class. It was there where he met the kid's dad. You know Nathan Ingram. He's that billionaire got killed a couple years back. Ingram. Graduated from the same class as Wren. Yeah. Except I did a little more digging. Wren was the name he used freshman year at MIT. That name doesn't appear on any records before '76. Which tells me that Wren was a false identity too. This guy's spent so much time being someone else he probably doesn't know who he is anymore. Only the paranoid survive. You know, Lionel, you could've been a good cop if not for a few bad choices. You got me snooping around your boss, but I make bad choices? Man has a point.
FINCH: You are being watched. The government has a secret system. A machine that spies on you every hour of every day. I know because I built it. I designed the machine to detect acts of terror, but it sees everything. Violent crimes involving ordinary people. People like you. Crimes the government considered irrelevant. They wouldn't act, so I decided I would. But I needed a partner. Someone with the skills to intervene. Hunted by the authorities, we work in secret. You will never find us. But victim or perpetrator, if your number's up, we'll find you. [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] FINCH: We have a new number, Mr. Reese. His name is Michael Cahill. REESE [OVER EARPIECE]: That all you got, Finch? FINCH: Cahill's 33 years old, single, no wife, no children, no pets. No attachments of any kind. A bit like you, Mr. Reese. Problem with this guy's passport. INS is on the way. We're supposed to wait. This guy just flew 15 hours for a heart transplant. I'm not letting him code out here FINCH: For all intents and purposes Cahill appears to be an upstanding citizen. REESE: Appearances can be deceptive. We're paying you good money, so keep your mouth shut, okay? FINCH: Indeed, Cahill's a criminal. B and E, assaulting an officer with a deadly weapon. Now he's graduated to smuggling. Crew's run by a guy named Vargas. These guys will move anything. If someone gets in their way, they'll kill everyone. How do you suggest we proceed, Mr. Reese? REESE: As usual, the more dangerous they are - What are you waiting for? Go. REESE: The closer I want to be to them. [ENGINE STARTS] [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] [SIREN WAILING] We got a problem. Let me talk to the cop. I got this. Stay put. Relax, kid. Cahill will talk us out of this. And if he can't, he'll just kill him. I never met a guy who hated cops as much as this guy. Okay, so, what's taking him so long? Huh? If he calls backup, then we're all dead. He doesn't have backup. I'm all paid up with HR. You found this rig? Our tail light's out. Our friend was just letting us know as a courtesy. [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] [SPEAKS IN UKRAINIAN] MAN: Here's your cut. [ENGINE STARTS] I thought I was gonna have to waste them. Heh. [AJAX & CAHILL GRUNTING] VARGAS: Mike, Mike, hold up, brother. - Kid's done enough learning for tonight. - One more mistake, I kill him. [AJAX GROANS] [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] REESE [OVER EARPIECE]: Got a problem. Cahill's on the move. FINCH [OVER EARPIECE]: It's 3 in the morning. Any idea where he's going? REESE: No, but whatever he's up to, it can't be good. Finch, Cahill's casing a home, He's breaking in, Finch. I need some information now. Homeowner's last name is Tulley. He's a police officer. John, you've gotta stop Cahill. DANNY: Daddy. Daddy, you're home. - Hi, bud. - Time for all good boys to be asleep. CAHILL: Later, champ. Sleep tight. [MELINDA CHUCKLES] Mr. Reese, it appears you're not the only person working undercover. [CHATTERING IN GERMAN ON MONITOR] [WOMAN SPEAKING IN GERMAN OVER RADIO] [MAN SINGING IN ARABIC ON STEREO] They might be updating our orders. You think this is being run through Langley? We're not even supposed to operate in this godforsaken country. - How many times you gonna clean that? - In the Army, they taught us the fastest way to get shot was to fail to clean your weapon. In the Marines, they taught us the fastest way to clean your weapon was to shoot a couple people with it. [KNOCKING ON DOOR] Best I could do. Cheap Polish vodka. - Is the package secure? - We have everything we need except the orders of where to deliver it. Almost everything. We're missing a glass. STANTON: Found it. The package. What'd he do? - Not our concern. - The guy looks government. The natives don't like us taking their people. He's government. Tried to sell something of ours to the Chinese. - What? - Software something. I don't know, don't care. We've got one job in this. Render him to some black hole from which he will never return. If the papers don't clear or the plane runs out of fuel, you execute him. When was the last time you were in-country, my friend? The call's not coming in tonight. Get yourself some R & R. Don't forget you're behind enemy lines. You get caught here, you're on your own. [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] REESE: Cahill certainly had me fooled. FINCH [OVER EARPIECE]: Cahill's real name is Daniel Tulley. Graduated from the police academy in 2003. Since then, all work records have disappeared. The N.Y.P.D. Seems to have gone to great lengths to hide his identity. Including a false Social Security number. If the machine gave us his number it may mean that somebody's figured out he's a cop. We should warn him. Risking his life is what he signed up for. If we play this wrong, we could do more harm than good. [LOCK BEEPS] We've got company, Finch. Why don't you just wear it, you gonna go announcing yourself? Less than a day from the biggest collar of your career, you take a holiday? The man's Cahill's handler. CAHILL [OVER EARPIECE]: No one followed me. I just needed to feel normal. We got enough on Vargas. I could pull you out now. Could've got Vargas five months ago. He's just a smuggler. LOS, that's the guy we want. He's picking up the next shipment in person. LOS is a fairy tale, Michael. I took this from the last delivery from LOS. It's 100-percent pure. We found the big one, the direct source. Whoever this LOS is if no one's stepping on his shipments, there's a good reason. I don't wanna wind up having to inform your wife Well, I'll take care of my end, you take care of yours. [SIGHS] I think Vargas has a cop in his pocket. Last night he was too confident that black and white wouldn't have backup. He's got someone protecting him from the inside, I'm sure of it. I'll look into it. Cahill believes Vargas has a cop on his payroll. REESE: So do I. Vargas was talking about being paid up with HR. Same corrupt cops who were willing to let Elias kill Carter. [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] SNOW: Detective Carter. CARTER: Agent Snow. I didn't realize you were still in town. I took a trip upstate. I'm sure now that our boy's working with a police officer. What makes you say that? SNOW: I found his fingerprints at a veterinary clinic in the Catskills. And yet I am certain that John was never there. I hope his new friend is luckier. John has a tendency to use people and then, well, discard them. I remember his old partner's funeral like it was yesterday. Pretty woman, like you. After he was done with her, not so much. A word, detective? You do realize the man who shot John was just here? Agent Snow doesn't know about me. Or my arrangement with our mutual friend. We need your help, detective. This man is Michael Cahill. Otherwise known as Daniel Tulley. Narcotics detective working undercover with a smuggling ring. - One that Mr. Reese has just infiltrated. - Heh. Of course he has. But we believe that there's a leak at the N.Y.P.D. I don't need to tell you what can happen if Cahill's cover is blown. And you expect me to find this leak? I just need you to explain the system. Who would know about Cahill's being undercover? CARTER: Only his handler. FINCH: What about the people that have access to his paperwork, files? No, files on undercovers are kept only as hard copies so people like you can't hack into them. Words wound, detective. CARTER: The files are kept in safes in one room controlled by IAB. However, only the handlers have the combinations to their UC's safe. Anyone tries to break in, IAB will send them on a one-way trip to Rikers. We would need to destroy Cahill's file before anyone could retrieve it. "We"? Yeah, see, breaking into 1 PP is a federal offense. I've got it covered. [CELL PHONE RINGING] Let me guess, another favor? Someone might be selling out an undercover narc to a smuggler named Vargas. Pay some of your dirty buddies in Narcotics a visit. Those guys don't exactly trust me anymore. I've been getting new collars lately too. Got a commendation. Your ass got you that commendation. Time to get your hands dirty again. [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] [CELL PHONE RINGS] VARGAS: Yeah. You don't say. Which one? Well, find out, then. Now. Something's wrong, Finch. Vargas got a call and he's not happy about it. VARGAS: Have to go ahead with the delivery now. [CLICKS] Because LOS will kill us if we don't. How many time I invite you for dinner? - All business with you. - Business is good. No time to eat. SU: You know, I've been thinking you and I might want to renegotiate our deal. You know, in our business, thinking is the most dangerous thing you can start doing. Well, maybe I take the shipment directly to LOS cut you out. Fine, fine. Tell you what. How about I give you a little something extra, okay? Just for you. Yeah? Hmm. [GRUNTS] [YELLS] Come on. Let's go. Move it. Put him in the back. VARGAS: That's it. Hit it. VARGAS: Close it up. REESE: Yeah. CAHILL: All right. AJAX: Aah. CAHILL: Come on. [AJAX GROANING] CAHILL: There. Good, down there. - Thought we were meeting with LOS. - We are. We're just making a little pit stop first. [SOBS] Take your phones out and destroy them. Drop looks to be in Brooklyn. Should have the exact location in a second. [STATIC CRACKLES] [BEEPING] What happened? Your weapons, toss them in. All of you, now. One of you is a cop. In an hour or two, I'm gonna find out which one. Whoever's still alive will finish making this delivery. [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] BARACK OBAMA [ON TV]: America is a place where all things are possible who still wonders if the dream of our founders is alive in our time Do you mind? - Not at all. BARACK OBAMA: Who still questions the power of our democracy - Hell of a thing, huh? tonight is your answer. [CROWD CHEERING ON TV] You, uh, live in New York or you just visiting? Just visiting. - Where you from? - Originally? Puyallup, Washington. Are you kidding me? My wife's from Puyallup. You still live there? No, not for a long time. I travel for work. Ah. I used to do that. It's brutal. Not anymore. Me and the wife just put a down payment on our first house up in New Rochelle. - You don't say? That sounds nice. Mm. You know what, my wife's running late as usual. I'd better give her a call. Make sure she's okay. [BARACK OBAMA SPEAKING INDISTINCTLY ON TV] STANTON: What did I tell you, John? You told me to get a drink. And of the 8 million people you could be drinking with in New York City you just happened to pick the one who's married to your ex? [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] [AJAX GROANING] Help me, please. He's losing blood. We should take him to the hospital. No one's going anywhere until I know which one of you is a rat. [AJAX SOBBING] CAHILL: Sip it. Slowly. [AJAX PANTING] Take me to the hospital, Mikey, please. Shut up or I'll put you out of your misery. Help me, please. [SOBBING] - We need to build a tourniquet. - Why bother? If we stop the bleeding, it might get him to shut up. - You guys get a call? - Someone lit up Su Chin's. Narco thing gone south. It's a damn shame. Best kung pao in Queens. Sorry for your loss. [CELL PHONE RINGING] Where's your partner? Oh. Let me guess, Queens? I'm having a little trouble finding him, actually. - You lost him? - "Lost" would be a strong word. But, yes, detective, in answer to your unspoken question, I need your help. What you got? A license plate. [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] He's lost a lot of blood. Think he'll make it? Probably not. We did the best we could. [CELL PHONE BEEPING] We got a break. Warehouse on the docks in Brooklyn. We need multiple units to respond. SIMMONS: Hey, look what the cat drug in. You look terrible. Look at you, you might wanna lay off the brown liquor. To what do I owe the, uh, pleasure? Smuggler, name of Neil Vargas. You ever heard of him? Gonna twist his arm, see if I can get a percentage of his scores. Thought maybe you might wanna get in. I don't hear a peep from you for three months. Then all of a sudden you show up with this new score? Hard to trust a guy whose buddies wind up in prison. You wanna shake down this Vargas? You gotta be a good boy and ask permission. If this guy isn't already paid up with HR, you can have at it. Who do I contact if I wanna contact HR? You already have. [CELL PHONE RINGING] - I'll be in touch. - I won't hold my breath. FUSCO: Yeah? FINCH [OVER PHONE]: Shift change at FUSCO: Opportunity for what? [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] FINCH [OVER EARPIECE]: In position? - Easy with the volume. No wonder Mr. Sunshine's in a foul mood. You'll get used to it, it takes a little time, which you're running out of. - What's the plan, kemosabe? - The plan is simple. The IAB detective that patrols the room makes one more inspection before the next shift begins. That will give you eight and a half minutes to spoof the key card break in, and retrieve Tulley's file before Vargas' informant can get to it. - Sure, sounds simple. - You point the reader at the key card. - Anything else I should know? - Don't get caught. Thanks a lot. I'll try my best. - Fusco, what are you doing here? - What are you doing? - Uh, I was just leaving. - I'm running an errand for the captain. - Later. - You have a good day and everything. Ah. [DIALING CELL PHONE] [RINGS] Detective Carter. CARTER [OVER EARPIECE]: Three hits on that plate. Logged by a plate reader on a cruiser in South Brooklyn. - I'm gonna start looking. - Glad to hear it. Thank you. [LINE BEEPS] FUSCO [OVER EARPIECE]: Finch? - Go ahead. FUSCO: All right, I'm going in now. [BOTH GRUNT] I'm sorry. Presto, I'm in. Okay, what now? Turn off the fluorescents. [OVER EARPIECE] Use that light I gave you. - Do you see the prints? - Three-five-eight. Start punching numbers. The code could be in any sequence. [BEEPING] - We're running out of time, detective. - Tried every combination. Not working. Little help, please? - Was one of the prints smudged? - Yeah, five's blurry, why? It's used twice. Try 3558. Five-five-eight-three. Eight-five-three-five. [BEEPS] Can't believe it worked. - I got Tulley's file. - Good job. Tulley's safe for now. You have 23 seconds left. [DOOR OPENS] Detective Fusco, right? My department investigated you and your buddies. - This isn't what it looks like. - Explain shredding a confidential file. You're under arrest. I had to destroy that file. - There's a UC whose life was in danger. - And you know this how? - I've got a guy. He tells me things. - What guy? What things? FINCH: Careful what you say, detective. We can look after you but these men are looking for our friend. Look, it doesn't make a difference who the guy is. All you need to know is a cop's life was on the line, I was trying to save it. [CELL PHONE RINGING] Yeah, I got a problem. I couldn't get the file. Some idiot destroyed it. But whoever the rat is, I got word he just made a phone call from your location. Somebody called? That's impossible. I gotta take care of a situation. I'll call you back later. You're the informant. Unh. Where's his phone? Lot easier for me to search you after I shoot you. He took it. The hell I did. [BOTH GRUNTING] CAHILL: Get off me! Shouldn't be too hard to find out. [CELL PHONE RINGING] Looks like we found our rat. [REESE GRUNTS] [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] [GRUNTS] [REESE COUGHING] You tell the cops about LOS? The delivery? You shouldn't waste time. My reinforcements will be here any minute. If that were true, I would have got a call from my guy and you'd be dead. We're not getting anywhere. Give me time alone. I'll get him to talk. You better get him to talk, or you both catch a bullet. [REESE GROANS] Who the hell are you? - I know you're not a cop. - No. But I've been undercover. I know the only thing you want in the world is to go home to your wife, Melinda, to your son, Danny. Hey. Let's get one thing straight. You don't know me. I know your handler's name is Byrne. I know you've been on the force since 2003. You had a younger brother, Connor who OD'd a month after you graduated high school. - How did you? - That's why you're committed to catching LOS. What are you, a fed or something? Something. I can help you escape. Help you get home. If you know me so well, then you know I won't go home. Not while LOS is still operating. REESE: Your cover's gonna be blown. You stay, you risk everything. Your life. Your family. Can you get a message to my wife? Tell her I love her. We'll find a way to get you home. And you can tell her yourself. The exchange is at the scrap yard. He's coming. [REESE GROANS] He say anything yet? - I need more time. - There's no more time. [GUN COCKS] Ajax is dead. We gotta dump the bodies. No, no, let me do it. I wanna see the look on his face as I end this rat. Help yourself. What's the play here, John? We're gonna kill this guy? Dissolve his body in a bathtub full of acid? Or are you just scratching an itch? His name is Peter. He's 37. He makes 175,000 a year. Is he a good guy or a serial killer? I don't know. But either way, he'll take better care of her than you could. This is why I worried about bringing you back. See, you look like the rest of these people. But you're not like them anymore, are you? If they knew what you'd done. You're barely even the same species. We're walking in the dark. I've heard this speech before. PETER: Hey. Sorry, I didn't realize you were meeting someone as well. Honey, you didn't tell him about your much better half? There will be hell to pay later. We should get going. Wait. Two seconds? Um, I really want you to meet my wife. She's gonna get a kick out of meeting someone from Puyallup. I get it. Believe me. First time I rotated back, I went straight home to my family. I sat outside in a rental car for three hours, just watching. I realized I could tell them everything that I'd seen everything that I'd done and they wouldn't understand a single word. This isn't some speech. We're not walking in the dark. We are the dark. - Ah. Peter. I'm sorry. I'm sorry I'm late. PETER: Jessica. It's time to go, John. PETER: There's a couple I want you to meet. JESSICA: Okay. - Oh. - I guess it's just us. - Yeah. - Yeah. [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] VARGAS: What's the holdup? He'll be harder to ID without this. Car will burn hot enough. Won't be anything left to ID. [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] [COUGHING] [GRUNTING] [GROANS] Need a lift? I was in the neighborhood. My lucky day. Your version of a lucky day is being shot and lit on fire? I'm not shot. Just grazed. Lucky for me, Cahill's an excellent marksman. [CELL PHONE RINGING] It's for you. FINCH [OVER PHONE]: Where's Cahill? Oh, I'm fine, Finch. Thanks for asking. Cahill went to the exchange with LOS without backup. - Where? REESE [OVER EARPIECE]: South Brooklyn. Scrap yard, headed there now. You got any firearms besides that piece? Here. REESE: Oh. Girl after my own heart. - Mr. Reese? - Yeah. We have one other problem. Vargas' informant has Detective Fusco. And his life is most certainly in danger. Mr. Reese, I'm not sure we have time to save them both. [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] CAHILL: This is LOS? You've made a mess out of this. Next time, don't keep me waiting. CAHILL: Back, back! You stay back or I spill your boss's brains on the asphalt. You know who you're threatening? Heh. Where's your backup, son? [GUN COCKS] Let him go. CAHILL: You're gonna have to shoot. [GUNFIRE] REESE: I wouldn't do that. CARTER: Stay down, don't nobody move. On the ground. You gonna arrest me? I'll be out in 14 hours. And then I'm coming for you. CAHILL: Threatening a police officer. I'll add that to the charges. REESE: There won't be any charges. At least none that stick. He's CIA. What? The CIA's trafficking drugs? The government couldn't win the war on drugs so they're using it to fund the war on terror. - This is common knowledge? - Doubtful. The Company's built on secrets. I risked my life for this. [SIRENS WAILING IN DISTANCE] I'm taking him in. REESE: You do, and the Company will ruin your career. And that's if you're lucky. I'm taking him in. Always liked to push my luck too. [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] Do you know why I'm so good at my job, Fusco? - I can tell a dirty cop when I see one. FUSCO: Try looking in the mirror. DAVIDSON: You know, you may think you've gone clean, found God Buddha or some African shaman but at the end of the day, your hands are still dirty, always will be. You hear that? I don't hear nothing. That's right. No sirens. No bullhorns. No one's coming to save you. No one cares. That guy, the one who tells you things he used you and let you rot like a piece of garbage. Might as well tell me who it is. At least you'll have the satisfaction of repaying the favor. Think you're the first person to put a gun to my head? No. But I will be the last. Yeah, maybe you will. You ever been shot? Craziest things go through your mind. Glad I put on clean underwear, hid that stash of porn. Sorry that your son had to find out that his old man was a dirty cop. Then you realize you're gonna die. And try to go down doing something good. - You wouldn't know that, you dirty sack. - Kneel. [GUN COCKS] [GUNSHOT] - Cutting it kind of close, don't you think? - At least I'm not late. Gotta call this in. I can make this good. That phone is the only proof that this guy was working with Vargas. - Yeah. - Let me see it. - What are you doing? - I can't have you coming clean. I need you inside HR. Get close to them. There are cameras inside of 1 PP. People will know I left with this guy. Murder one, don't you get it? That's the point. You'll need your friends at HR to help you cover this up. I was starting to enjoy being good for a change. You've done some nice work, Lionel. I'm sorry, but you're more useful inside. My hands are dirty, always will be, huh? [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] DANNY: We taking Mommy to the hospital? CAHILL: Yeah, champ. You're about to have a new little brother. I'm sure I forgot something. I should have packed a week ago. [MELINDA CHUCKLES] Honey, what is it? You okay? I love you so much. I know. I thought you might like to know that Snow has arranged the release of LOS. He'll be out in less than an hour. What do you plan to do? I'll keep an eye on Cahill. Make sure he stays safe and sound. He's about to have a screaming infant. I doubt he'll be anywhere close to sound. Poor guy. It's been a long time, Mark. Surprised they sent you down here for me. You know the agency, they always take care of their own. The whole deal went pear-shaped, probably cost us 20, 30 million. First thing to take care of are those two cops. Some undercover and a female detective. I gave them both fair warning. They gotta go. We gotta send a message. You were always impulsive, Ray. Can't go around killing cops. You really shouldn't have gotten yourself arrested. I warned you you're behind enemy lines here. Come on. [RAY GRUNTING] [ZIPPER ZIPS] Got your call. Looks like you got yourself in a little trouble. - It was an accident. - Most accidents don't require a shovel. Help me make this go away. I'll be indebted. You'll be a little more than indebted, my friend. You belong to HR now.
FINCH: You are being watched. The government has a secret system. A machine that spies on you every hour of every day. I know because I built it. I designed the machine to detect acts of terror, but it sees everything. Violent crimes involving ordinary people. People like you. Crimes the government considered irrelevant. They wouldn't act, so I decided I would. But I needed a partner. Someone with the skills to intervene. Hunted by the authorities, we work in secret. You will never find us. But victim or perpetrator, if your number's up, we'll find you. [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] What's wrong with my other suits? They're fine for a hired assassin, Mr. Reese. Just not for this particular job. - Where am I going? - To mingle with the best and brightest. Wall Street. We have a new number, Mr. Adam Saunders. He's a prop trader at the investment firm of Baylor Zimm. - Prop trader? - Proprietary. He invests the bank's own money, not the client's. He seems to be your typical over-educated, over-compensated Wall Street high flyer. - Hmm. - They're fine. - No. The cuff should shiver on the shoe, not break. Saunders has already had a brush with the SEC. An accusation of insider trading, unproven. So his risk-taking may have led him into dangerous waters. I want you to get close to him. I don't know anything about Wall Street. FINCH: Here's a start although it doesn't really matter. Banking is mostly looking clever and wearing the right clothes. And we've managed the second part. [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] MAN 1 [ON MONITOR]: I don't know how this works, but he's seen too much. MAN 2 [ON MONITOR]: We'll clean it up. MAN 1: Whatever it takes. [ALL CHATTERING] - I'm a prop trader, not a tour guide. - This guy is a whale. He brings us business, it's millions. That'd be great if I handled clients, but the only people I make money for are Baylor and Zimm. The amount of bank this guy's talking, it'll bleed into ours soon enough. - Sydney know about this? - Said they requested you by name. Someone must think you know what you're doing. Look, you're backing me into a corner on this, Paul. - I got my eye on the thing. - Heh. Hey, what are friends for? Besides, you don't even have to meet the whale. Just his rep. Some asset manager. Outstanding. I'll be spending two days with hair gel and a pinstriped suit. It's Glen check, actually. - John Rooney. Assets. - Adam Saunders. - I know what I'm doing. - My client prefers to stay anonymous. [OVER EARPIECE] He's the silent type. He's also not fond of heights. I thought rooftops were your domain, Mr. Reese? Your reputation precedes you. My client trusts reputations when it comes to his money. Reputations can be deceiving. How much are we talking? At first? Pocket change. My client likes to roll the dice. No TIPS, no I bonds, no short-term funds. Play jazz. Consider it an audition, Mr. Saunders. It starts now. FINCH [OVER EARPIECE]: You're a quick study, Mr. Reese. Adam, get over here. They're reading. WOMAN [ON TV]: Reporting outside the criminal courthouse in lower Manhattan. We've received word the jury has returned in the Robert Keller murder trial - You following this? Former CEO of Virtanen Pharmaceuticals. - Guy's standing trial for murder. - I'm familiar with it. Only thing between this company and Chapter 11 is an acquittal. Ever the pessimist, Saunders. Nothing breeds like bad news, even on the broker side. Right, Vic? Bad news is already priced in. Keller's son-in-law's steering the ship. It's a blue chip at a bargain-basement price. [OVER EARPIECE] Smart money's already in, pal. That's why I handle the big bucks around here. - You just went pro too early. - Way too early. That's Sydney Baylor, a partner in the firm. She also has a reputation. - Reputation for what? - Everything. You held the sell tickets on Virtanen to the last minute so I wouldn't see. - One hundred million shorted, Adam? - You wanted playmakers around here. You short-sold Virtanen? Are you out of your mind? It's guilty, their stock craters and I hold the price that I sold for. See, that's the smart money, Victor. Let it ride. All right, kid. But consider what you're betting. FOXGLOVE: A verdict has been read. They're relaying it now. Guilty of all charges. [CROWD CHEERING] FOXGLOVE: Immediately following the verdict, the DA announced charges against Virtanen CFO Mark Lawson. Congratulations. You do that again and you'll find yourself the most successful occupier down in a tent on the street. Feel like having a drink over the grave of Virtanen? Why not? ADAM: I'll round up some guys, meet you downstairs. His phone didn't pair, Finch. That ever happen before? All I can think is somebody already bluejacked him. It appears we're not the only ones looking into Adam Saunders. I see why. Guy plays poker with other people's money and gloats about it. I wouldn't be so sure about that. Someone like that the win doesn't concern him, it's the rush. [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] [TIRES SCREECH] [HORN HONKING] Virtanen two vultures, one stone. How did you know? I read everything. All the 10-K financials nobody else bothered to. Virtanen didn't have any blockbuster drugs in the pipeline. They hocked everything for Keller's legal defense not to mention the CFO's. Heh. It was all buried, but I found it. Keller was the tip of the iceberg. That ship was going down. So I took the bet. [CHUCKLES] No risk, no reward. You ever play Russian roulette? You want to get in the game, you gotta spin the cylinder. [DANCE MUSIC PLAYING] [ALL CHATTERING] REESE [OVER EARPIECE]: You in his apartment yet, Finch? The rent on this place must be staggering. [OVER EARPIECE] Maybe that's why he doesn't have any furniture. Mr. Reese, there's a small fortune in Saunders' closet. For a banker, he doesn't seem to trust banks. Bundles of $200 each. And another club soda. You pay, but you don't drink? I drink. Just not right now. Adam here prefers to keep his wits about him at all times. I hate that. How was the dime tour? Was our proprietary friend worth the reputation? - Every penny. - There he is. Mr. Big-Shot. You know how many clients I had to apologize to today when they found out I put them in a stock you shorted? Okay. Next time, do your homework. Homework? Are we in grade school? Oh, sorry, Vic. I guess you just went pro too early. [VICTOR & ADAM GRUNTING] [WOMAN SCREAMS] MAN: Watch it. Come on. REESE: Let's go. MAN: Hey, watch it. My suit. REESE [OVER EARPIECE]: We've got a Wall Street trader that gambles millions by day and fights at night. FINCH [OVER EARPIECE]: And someone's tracking him. Stay on him tonight. If somebody goes after him, it'll likely happen at his home. REESE: He isn't going home. Looks like he's working overtime. Adam's closer to his boss than we thought, Finch. Who is this guy? [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] FINCH [OVER EARPIECE]: Adam never came home. Since it was there I took the liberty of copying some of his records filled in some of the gaps, not all. I have a death certificate for his mother when he was 9. Guardianship papers signed by a Robert Sowoski from three years later. - No father in the picture? - Guess not. I pulled up his employment contract from his personal computer. Sydney Baylor hired him herself. Their private relationship may account for his speedy rise to a trading desk. This looks like more than sleeping your way to the top, Finch. No other smudges on his record except a Securities and Exchange Commission investigation that involved him six months ago. I don't know why. - Maybe Detective Carter could help. - We'll see. Until then, I've taken care of the current surveillance on Adam. After a GPRS reroute, no one will be listening to his calls. If someone makes another attempt, they'll have to get close. And we'll nail them. COURIER: Joss Carter? - Yeah. - Your delivery from Westside Dry Cleaning. - I didn't have any dry cleaning. COURIER: Well, got your name on it here, so What is it? One man's suit. Just sign right here. CARTER: Thank you. John's gonna want that suit back. CARTER: So where's Mr. Navaad? He's taking his family to a Knicks game while I borrow his taxi. - Adam Saunders? Is he in trouble? - He might be. He needs our help, Detective Carter, and I need yours. That why we're going to No, that's the regional offices of the Securities and Exchange Commission. We need to get a look at sealed SEC records pertaining to Mr. Saunders. [CHUCKLES] And you think I can just do that? If anyone can do it, you can. Tsk. All right. I'll see what I can do. - You turned on the meter. - Don't forget to tip. ADAM: Triple espresso, please. RASMUSSEN: Oh. Triple espresso? That's a lot of caffeine. You must be tired. I am tired. Of nosy SEC investigators. Your inquiry wrapped six months ago. And I can't let another Ivy League punk like yourself get away with it. And I still have nothing to say. You always were good at keeping your mouth shut. You know what? Hey, I'm so sorry, forget it. RASMUSSEN: Ahem. - Heh, heh. Is this the new standard procedure, harassment in broad daylight? A year from now, I'm still gonna be looking. One slip, so much as give your grandma a stock tip, I'm gonna get you. The SEC is a watchdog without teeth. You couldn't give a parking ticket. RASMUSSEN: I got friends in the Justice Department. They love sending rich white boys up to Otisville. Watch your step. Carter sent over the sealed SEC files. Inspector Doug Rasmussen pursued possible counts of insider trading at Baylor Zimm last year. The inquiry was aimed at top-tier executives. Adam was a subpoenaed witness, but all charges were dropped. He testified to knowing of zero wrongdoing among the upper management of the firm. I believe he was lying to protect his boss, Sydney Baylor. [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] FINCH [OVER EARPIECE]: What's Adam up to now? REESE: Headed all the way out to Queens. Looks like he's got a bone to pick with a guy in a food truck. ADAM: Hey, buddy. I had a bratwurst from this rolling outhouse last week. Hit me worse than a cleanse. I'm calling the Department of Health. I don't see the problem. Now you can stuff that soft gut of yours back into your $2000 suit. Three-thousand-dollar suit. Three thousand dollars for a suit? [BOTH LAUGH] Three thousand dollars for a suit. How are you, pal? ADAM: Good. - The food truck is registered to Robert Sowoski. - Legal guardian? SOWOSKl: Don't come around the neighborhood? ADAM: Life in the fast lane, Uncle Bob. SOWOSKl: I'll get you something to eat. He's more than a guardian. He's also a Baylor Zimm client. You look into that MNP I asked about? Ha, ha. MLP, Uncle Bob. Master limited partnership. - And it's called Tritak Energy. - Tritak, right. Right. Look, I know you told those fancy number crunchers at your office to take care of my money, but I'm reading this material they keep sending. Looks like an awful lot of cash going into one company. I mean, I keep seeing it. Tritak. Tritak. I mean, it was 10 percent, now it's 40. Even a financial dunce like myself knows you gotta diversify. Uncle Bob, would I steer you wrong? Who got you those tax breaks? Who got you that low-interest loan? You had one truck Now I got six trucks, 20 employees. And from what I heard, that MLP is returning 8 percent. Where else you gonna find that kind of return? - Trust that broker. - Adam - What? - I do. You're a genius. - And you always have been. - Thank you. REESE: What do we know about Tritak Energy, Finch? Not much. Stay close to Adam, see what you can find out. On a side note, Saunders guided me to a very kind broker who happily deposited our money in Baylor Zimm. Hope you got a receipt, Finch. [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] Mr. Saunders, we had an appointment to finalize that deposit. Uh, give me Give me just one minute. Hey, Paul? - Paul, you got a second? PAUL: Yeah. That energy company I asked you about last week? Tritak? You made a hundred million yesterday in the short of the century and you're asking about some MLP? Who cares? It's my uncle's cash. I care. All the fixed-income crowd is getting dumped into MLPs. It's safe. Boring. It's not just my uncle. It's half the clients at this firm, and half the firm. I ran the numbers. Baylor Zimm is invested in this to 19 percent. Is anybody even tracking that? You've been looking into client money? You can't do that. Like, federally, you can't. It's illegal and so is this conversation. - Thanks for the tip. - Hey, what are friends for? - We'll talk later. - Yeah. What's this I hear about you getting questioned by the SEC today? It's nothing. It's the same guy. Rasmussen. New day, same song. He's got nothing. I need to talk to you. Remember that company I asked you about the other night? Tritak? How about we keep what we talk about at night, at night? And as for the SEC, just remember that last time we barely got off the hook. We can't take another embarrassment. You mean the firm can't take another embarrassment, right? Keep your head down, Adam. Please. [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] ADAM: I come here a lot when I need to decompress. It's peaceful. So, what were you arguing about at the office? Isn't anything your client needs to worry about. Is the SEC something my client needs be worried about? In this business, someone's always trying to find the trick. The con. Right. - So, what's yours? - We're just that good. REESE: Uh-huh. Is that why you invested your uncle's money with the firm? - Excuse me? - We have $150 million on the line. We like to know everything, Adam. Saunders is your given name, right? But wouldn't Sowoski be more accurate? Are you having me followed? Let's go. I'm driving you back to B/Z. If they still want your money, some other schmuck can handle it. So we're clear: My family, my past, is none of your business. - No matter how much money is at stake. - Right. I should call the police. - You may need to. - What are you talking about? See the construction equipment back there? ADAM: I see it. So what? - See any workers with it? ADAM: They want me to slow down. We're being funneled. Don't stop. Someone just tried to kill Adam, Finch. [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] FINCH: How's Saunders after last night? REESE: He thinks it was an accident. - And you're sure it wasn't? - It's called "funneling." You force your target into a kill zone by subtly shifting his direction. Carter's looking at the scene now. The vehicles, the stoplight, it was professional. But who wants Adam dead enough to bring in a hit team? FINCH: I've been watching my money. The majority of it is being shuffled into one company Tritak. Same one Adam's uncle mentioned only at 10 times the rate his money was invested. Someone is moving faster than before. Tritak invests in the Louisiana/Texas pipeline running gas to the northeast. People need natural gas. So for the most part, Tritak should keep a steady price. But it shot up 600 percent recently because of a buy frenzy initiated at Baylor Zimm. - Insider trading? - Happened before. Adam knew about it then, maybe he knows now. Except he won't walk away this time. We were almost roadkill last night. I'm getting tired of playing around. FINCH: Mr. Sowoski, I'm with the SEC. We're looking into possible criminal activities at Baylor Zimm Investments. We know your nephew is a trader there. - What, did he do something wrong? - We can't be sure. Does Adam advise you on your own investments? No. I got a broker for that. What can you tell me about a company called Tritak Energy? Not much. You'd have to talk to my guy. But your own money is heavily invested in it, correct? Yeah. You know, I knew there was something fishy going on there. But Adam, he put me with good people, he said it was fine. How well do you know your nephew? When my sister died, Adam's dad left to find work out west. He ended up in New Mexico. He never came back. So Adam lived with my family. Every month, his father sent $200 home. For whatever: Comic books, new shoes. Adam never spent it. Year after year, he saved every penny in shoe boxes. It was thousands. And when he grew up he used it to enroll in night classes before he could get into a real business school. In the end, what Adam had instead of a father was cash in a shoe box. What'd he do? Bought himself a future. Saunders, we should talk. Now. Tritak. A run-of-the-mill MLP just happens to be the hottest equity on the market. Tell me what you know. I don't know anything. I bet you'll start remembering when you're up in Otisville. But by then, it'll be too late to make a deal. Okay. Okay. All right, look, look. I ran some numbers the other night, it looks like It doesn't add up. There's no reason why Baylor Zimm should be dumping so much money into this one company. Unless somebody knows something the rest of us don't. You still have the numbers you ran? On a laptop in my office. Get it. Now. [ALL CHATTERING] [CELL PHONE BEEPING] [BELL DINGS] MAN: Excuse me. [BELL DINGS] Mr. Reese, we have a problem. He's on the roof. [ADAM GRUNTING] [ALL GRUNTING] REESE: We gotta get you out of here. We have to move fast. This building is tactically unsafe. - You're not an asset manager. - No. But I did save your life. - What the hell happened back there? - Just a second attempt to kill you. I need to know what about Tritak has people repeatedly trying to do that. It started with my uncle. The firm invested him in a company. He asked me some questions, so I took a peek. - Illegally. - But he was family. I didn't think anything of it. Then I saw some numbers that I didn't agree with, so I wrote an e-mail. I was gonna send it to Risk Management, Legal, the partners, everybody. But then the SEC started sneaking around, so I was told to keep my mouth shut. - It was insider trading? - It wouldn't be the first time. Look, I never sent that e-mail. Did you tell anyone else? A few friends at the firm. I asked them to take a look at it [BELL DINGS] REESE: Who? Sydney Baylor. FORDES: I got the search results that you wanted, Carter. Only one utility yard reports vehicle thefts in the last week. All stolen three nights ago. Back hoe, steam roller and a refurbished sanitation vehicle? What would somebody want with an old garbage truck? Thanks. [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] FINCH [OVER EARPIECE]: Reese, did you find Baylor? REESE: Yeah, we're at her penthouse now. - Ugh. - But she isn't saying much. Whoever's after Adam got to her first. This is my fault. I asked her about the Tritak numbers. She must've looked into them herself. Oh. Oh, my God. They killed her. Adam, you recognize that bottle? ADAM: Yeah, we drank it the other night to celebrate the Virtanen short. Which means your fingerprints are all over it. Everywhere. Finch, they killed Baylor for digging into her own company. Made it look like Adam did it before plunging to his own death. [SIRENS WAILING] The cavalry's here. Time to go. The police will be all over Adam. What are you gonna do? Take him somewhere safe. Come on. [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] TECH: Cause of death was blunt-force trauma to the head. CARTER: Prints? TECH: I dusted twice. None on the tub, none on the body. Only other ones we found were the vic's and an Adam Saunders'. He was having a relationship with the victim. His prints are all over the home and murder weapon. You mean the champagne bottle? TECH: How'd you know that? - Heh. - Here. - Thanks. Is there any chance, if Saunders was having a relationship with the vic that he could've handled the champagne bottle, say, days ago then had it planted? That'd be pretty slick. But who'd go through the trouble? They'd have to, what, search the building's garbage? Anyway, basement's guarded. Unless they had a garbage truck. FINCH [OVER EARPIECE]: We have many safe houses where Adam could be taken. REESE: I know. [ALL CHATTERING] The safest I've ever been was when I was anonymous. Here. - You'll be safe too. - Wait. You can't Wait, you can't leave me here. I can't sleep here. Why not? I did. Right over there, for four months. See that woman? Her name is Joan. If you need anything, just ask her. Oh, uh Just don't touch anything in her cart. Here. Don't use this phone until I call you on it. ADAM: Wait, wait, wait. Victor. Go find Victor. Your pal from the nightclub? He's the senior broker. If someone's putting clients in Tritak whether or not they want it he's the next rung down on the ladder. [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] If this bill had not been passed today, it would've been put aside indefinitely which would be detrimental to the state of New York. We have a problem, Mr. Reese. What else is new? Have you heard about Utica Shale or the process of fracking? Mm. It's, um, underground rock formations. Companies dig down and fracture shale beds to release natural gas. They just passed a bill to start fracking in upstate New York. Which means they wouldn't need a pipeline up from the south. And they don't need to invest in a company like Tritak. How much did Baylor Zimm have invested in Tritak? Or how much did its clients? Millions. Millions upon millions. And they will lose everything. Adam saw this coming, tried to stop it. Which is why they tried to kill him. But who are they? Adam told me to talk to Victor. Said he would have to know. [BROKERS CHATTERING] The bill passed overnight. I'm trying to sell your shares as fast as I can. You have to understand. REESE: Hello, Victor. You're a patsy. They just used you. Your boss is dead. Adam's life is on the line. And millions were lost. People needed that money. Families. I thought Tritak was a safe bet. Someone got to the senators. Someone powerful enough to push that shale-fracking bill through the system. REESE: But why build Tritak up? Why silence Adam only to watch it fail? [ALL CHATTERING] ADAM: Oh, no. [DIALING CELL PHONE] [LINE RINGS] ADAM [OVER EARPIECE]: Listen, it's a short sale. Someone had the brokers pump up the price and then sold high because they knew that the bill was gonna pass and kill Tritak. Whoever shorted it stands to make millions on this. That's why they targeted you. So how do we find the short-seller? Look around. There's 50 brokers selling off Tritak. Find the guys who already sold it days ago. Because now they have to cover the short and buy it back. I gotta go. [ALL CHATTERING] ADAM: Hey, Uncle Bob. SOWOSKl: Adam, what's going on? You told me Tritak was safe. Bob, I'm sorry. I'm so sorry. I'll get your money back. It's not just my money, Adam. It's salaries, it's pensions. It's every employee that works for me. - It's my business. The Sowoski name. - Bob, I Look SOWOSKI [OVER PHONE]: But you're not a Sowoski. At least, you never thought you were. You're a Saunders. - Isn't that right, Adam? ADAM [OVER PHONE]: No. I'll get it back. Even if it takes the rest of my life, I will get it back. SOWOSKl: I gotta go. MAN: Hey, boss? I think I got a location on the kid. REESE [OVER EARPIECE]: I need your help on this, Finch. I need you to get inside Baylor Zimm. I'm on the trading floor now. Mr. Reese, I found something. Paul Ashton. Adam's friend. Also a senior risk manager. I found his short-sale orders from last week. And the buy orders for Tritak issued to him this morning. - For how many? - About 4 million. Where's Paul now? FINCH: I'm about to find out. His phone is tethered to his calendar. Maybe I can hack into his GPS. Paul? It can't be. No, I mean, it really can't. They put measures in place to catch securities fraud. Insider trading, short-sale manipulation. How did Paul do it? Paul isn't working alone. [OVER EARPIECE] He's got a friend in the SEC. I spent my entire career chasing down rogue traders only to see my agency get defanged when the country needed us watching the closest. Pity. - If you can't beat them, join them. - And make millions along the way. Three hundred million, to be exact. Where are we? Tritak was down to $4 a share by closing bell today. [OVER EARPIECE] When the market opens tomorrow, it'll be 2. I've got buy orders in place to pick up the shares we need. And the loose ends? Well, Baylor won't be asking any more questions, but Adam is still out there. He could be a problem. I have it under control. [JOAN LAUGHING] You would be better off balling up that paper and stuffing it under your clothes. It'll keep you warm. See, how did it get to this? I mean I earned everything that I achieved in my life. I know. Your uncle told us. You talked to him? He told us about your father and the $200 he'd send you. He doesn't know the end of the story. He doesn't know when I was 16, I went to go find my father. I took a train to New Mexico and I found him. And he had a new family. And then when I went to him he tried to hand me another $200. [ADAM CHUCKLES] I didn't want the money. I wanted a family. And you've had one. An uncle who spent his life slaving over a food-truck counter. For you. I'll get Bob's money back. I promised him that I would. When did you talk to your uncle? [ALL CHATTERING] [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] REESE: Get down. [GUNFIRE] [SHOUTING] [CROWD SCREAMING] - We need to go. We need to move. - Stay down. Now move. REESE: So Paul was working with Rasmussen all along. On a massive short-sell bet against Tritak. It's lost 90 percent of its value already. But an SEC investigator and a banker do not shoot up a homeless encampment with automatic weapons. - No. There was some serious muscle behind this. - How's Adam doing? - Not bad for a guy who's lost everything. Does he still have a suit? - Why? - Paul and Rasmussen need Tritak to bottom-out before they can collect on their bet. What are you talking about, Finch? Ever try to catch a falling knife, Mr. Reese? Sounds like a good way to get cut. Which is why we need a damn good investment banker. Have Adam put on a tie. He's going back to work. [ALL CHATTERING] BROKER: I got a buy. I got a buy on Tritak. PAUL: What the hell? Victor, I need your help. I've buy orders here for 4 million shares of Tritak. Can you fill these immediately? I can buy what's available, but some new player hit the market hard today. Been buying all morning. There was a lot out there to buy. Would you look? Tritak just hit 15 a unit. [SIGHS] By the time the dumb money gets back in, it'll be at an all-time high. - Who's the new player? - Anonymous. But I have a number. Maybe you can strike a deal. Hey, you called. What's going on? I'm saving our asses. That's what's going on. [CELL PHONE RINGS] This is Harold Crane. Yes? Sir, this is Paul Ashton with Baylor Zimm Investments. I need to speak with you about your majority share in Tritak. Sorry, speak to my banker about that. No, sir [CELL PHONE RINGS] Sorry, Paul, but my little buying frenzy just reinvigorated the Tritak MLP. And I own all the shares. Don't worry, I'll sell you what you need. After all, what are friends for? And your little game of Hide the Short? Only works when it's legal. - You can't prove anything. - No, I can't. But Victor and a dozen other brokers just lining up to testify against you? They'll do anything to avoid jail time. AGENT: Let us through here. BROKER: That's the guy. Over here. AGENT: There, get him. [GRUNTING] John Rooney. Assets. [ENGINE STARTS] It's all of it. All your money. You were the only person I counted on when I was younger. And I wish that you could've counted on me. And I hope that someday, you know, maybe you can forgive me. Of course I forgive you, kid. You're family. Of course I forgive you. [SOWOSKI CHUCKLES] [OVER EARPIECE] Even if I can't stand your taste in suits. Let me ask you this: What are we gonna do about reinvesting? ADAM [OVER EARPIECE]: You and I could look into franchising the business. But first I got some people I want you to feed. [JOAN GRUNTS] I didn't know what you were into before we met, John, and I don't know now but you sure know how to keep things interesting. I saw signs posted downstairs. Someone finally bought this old place. New ownership. Looks like we'll have to make camp elsewhere. [HORN HONKING] Actually, I know the new owner. He's a smart kid with a good head on his shoulders. [SPEAKING INDISTINCTLY] I don't think you'll have to be moving anywhere. Hey. I never said thank you for looking after me when I needed it. Who's looking after you these days? Someone new. [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] FORDES: Some big-shot broker, huh? - Where's the other one? FORDES: What other one? There's supposed to be two suspects. - You talking about the SEC guy? - Yeah. FORDES: They found him dead in his apartment in Queens. Self-inflicted GSW to the head. Guess he couldn't stand the thought of Otisville. Hmm. I heard they both were arrested. I don't know what to tell you. CARTER: I was thinking. All of this? Heh. It was all too slick. Too complicated. A stockbroker and a finance cop couldn't pull this off. No. There was someone else behind the scenes. Someone who hired a team of assassins who knew a bill would pass in state government weeks before it did. Someone who could use 300 million to finance a personal war. So, what's this? The bigger picture. [DIALING] [CELL PHONE RINGING] Hello, John. Been a long time.
FINCH: You are being watched. The government has a secret system. A machine that spies on you every hour of every day. I know because I built it. I designed the machine to detect acts of terror, but it sees everything. Violent crimes involving ordinary people. People like you. Crimes the government considered irrelevant. They wouldn't act, so I decided I would. But I needed a partner. Someone with the skills to intervene. Hunted by the authorities, we work in secret. You will never find us. But victim or perpetrator, if your number's up, we'll find you. MAN 1 [OVER PHONE]: You hear? Moretti's getting out of the slammer. MAN 2 [OVER PHONE]: Moretti? You think Elias knows? MAN 1: I think Elias arranged it. Wants him out in the open. [STATIC CRACKLING] [INDISTINCT OVERLAPPING VOICES] Where the hell did you come from? Heh. Felt like a walk. Fifty miles from Manhattan? [BELL RINGS] GUARD: On the gate. Don't tell me you're here for Moretti. How did you know he was being released? Should have guessed. Whenever you show up, trouble's right around the corner. What's your plan, Carter? I got authority to offer Moretti protection. In exchange, he tells us how to get New York's public enemy number one. - His own son. - His own son. Elias. - You there, Finch? FINCH: Not for long. Have you seen Moretti? Enjoying his first breath of freedom. You going somewhere? We got another number. Issued by the Social Security Administration two months ago to a woman named Leila Smith. Either a new citizen or a case of identity fraud. All I could find was a work address. We're working Moretti's number, Finch. I need you at HQ. The numbers don't wait in line, Mr. Reese. Be in touch. DRIVER: Hey. CARTER: Carter, N.Y.P.D. Remember me? Cops all look the same. - You know Elias is looking for you. - I don't see him. Not yet, but I can put you somewhere safe try to keep you alive. I remember you now. You're the one Elias wanted to kill. The cop who's on her own. Looks like nothing's changed. [TYPING ON KEYBOARD] FINCH: You don't work here, Leila. You're a patient. REESE: Any idea where he's going? He used to own a house out here. [ELEVATOR BELL DINGS] Hello, I'm Dr. Tillman here to see Leila Smith. Dr. Adalian asked me to check the status of her bronchitis. She's pretty well over that by now. Nonetheless. Do you have her chart for me? Here she is. Our own little angel. No parents listed. Oh, Leila's a safe-haven baby. Dr. Adalian himself found her outside the clinic. - So who applied for her Social Security? - That was me. Wanted to be sure the state knew who Leila was even if her parents didn't care. Normally, she'd be given up for adoption by now but she had medical issues, like her bronchitis. She'll find a home soon. Thank you, nurse. Hello, Leila. Now, who in the world would wanna hurt you? [COOING] MAN: We're here for Leila Smith. We have to transfer her to another clinic. Dr. Adalian [PHONE RINGS] Mr. Reese, I think I have a situation. Me too. I have to get back to you. ABBOT: This way. Looks like an accident. Go around them. Please! Can you help us? Keep going. [BOTH GRUNT] Get out! Police! Drop your weapon! [GROANS] [BOTH GRUNTING] CARTER: Come on, let's go. SZYMANSKl: I heard what happened. You're very lucky she was there, Mr. Moretti. Yeah? Who are you? Detective Szymanski. Another cop. Do I have to stay here? You're a free man, Gianni. You can walk out of here and into a bullet any time. Or you can stay and help us get Elias before he gets you. [SIGHS] A mafia don in hiding. You plan on clearing this with your bosses? CARTER: It's already cleared. Elias doesn't own the whole department. Not yet. Still a few good cops, like Szymanski in there who want Elias taken down and think Moretti is the best way to do it. Anyway - Thank you. - You're welcome. Stay out of trouble. - Hey, Finch. How's it going? FINCH [OVER EARBUD]: Oh. It's going. What about Moretti? Elias had a "getting out of jail" party planned. We crashed it. What happened with the other number, Finch? Cat got your tongue? I'm afraid I may have done something rather rash. What do you mean by rash? REESE: Is this one of your ties, Finch? I hope you gave her some food, not just your hand-me-downs. Chicken and prunes is her favorite. Sounds, um, disgusting. But why on earth would anyone wanna kill her? Somehow, I don't see anyone planning a murder here. My guess is that if they were successful in kidnapping her they'd smuggle her out of the country and dump her in an orphanage. Somewhere where babies are plentiful and birth records aren't. - Why get rid of her? - She might be evidence of an affair or she might be an obstacle to someone getting a big fat legacy. As for who "they" are, I have no idea. But since she kept me up all night, I looked into the clinic's finances. They received a big gift, 50,000, just about the time Leila was born and 10,000 every month since then. - Who's the donor? - Anonymous. I sent the clinic a sternly worded e-mail from the IRS demanding the donor's tax ID number and threatening to review their charitable status if they didn't answer. We'll see how that works. Uh-oh. AMBER Alert. "Baby kidnapped from St. Raymond's Clinic last night. Suspect is a short man with mousy hair and thick glasses." That's not very flattering, Finch, but better than the picture. No wonder they never catch anybody with these things. Think Carter can piggyback the investigation? I'll ask her. You can spend some quality time with Leila. Detective, has Mr. Moretti given you anything on Elias? Not yet, but we're working on him. [EASY LISTENING MUSIC PLAYING OVER SPEAKERS] Who you buying that stuff for? That's why I wanted to talk to you. A baby went missing from a clinic in Washington Heights last night. Missing? It was stolen. By some weird-looking No. You didn't. She was in imminent danger of kidnap. So you kidnapped her? You know there's an AMBER Alert out on you. Yes, and that's why we need your help. Help? I should arrest you. - Where is the baby, anyway? - Leila is safe. - She's with John. - [WHISPERING] John? John? You trust him with a baby? [WHISPERS] I realize it's not ideal, so the sooner we can resolve this, the better. What do you want me to do? Apart from not arresting you. [IN NORMAL VOICE] Go to the clinic, see what you can find out about Leila's parents. [IN NORMAL VOICE] I heard she was a safe-haven baby. Clinic's not gonna have that information. I think they know more than they claim. Talk to a Nurse Abbot. She seemed especially fond of Leila. Congratulations. Is it your first? [CHATTERING] MAN: - Get a positive ID on that second male vic. That how you keep your boyish figure? Bite me. Did you hear Gianni Moretti got out of prison yesterday, then vanished? All state police found was five dead goombahs. Mobsters killing each other, how tragic. Except it wasn't just mobsters. Your partner was there too. Carter? Looks like she and a couple of cowboys have got some kind of rinky-dink off-book operation. They've hidden Moretti. We wanna find out where. HR can't find out? Thought you guys had your fingers in all the pies. You are one of the pies, Fusco. Find out where she's got Moretti stashed. Like I told the other detectives, we don't know about the parents. Leila was just left outside the clinic. Was there anything found on Leila? I'm Dr. Adalian. Who are you? - Detective Carter, SVU. ADALIAN: Detective. As Nurse Abbot explained, we don't know where Leila came from. You must have kept something. What about her clothes? Her blankets? No. The safe-haven law was designed to protect newborns not prosecute their parents. It's not our job to hunt people down. Thank you. - I'm sorry. - Excuse me. Look. All I care about is Leila. If you can think of anything, call me. Please. This flap here, that flap there. See? Neat and simple. I see your time at MIT wasn't wasted. Excellent. The accountants at the clinic have coughed up the tax ID numbers of their donor. Nothing like a fear of the IRS to produce results. Tax ID belongs to Petrosian Construction. Company owned by Adnan Petrosian. And if we dive into that swamp of indiscretion known as social media we will learn that Adnan Petrosian has been married to Nicola for more than 20 years. They have one son, Bradley, who's taking a Master's in Finance at NYU. REESE: Dada or Dada? Be serious, Mr. Reese. I need you to get close to this family. [CAMERA SHUTTER CLICKING] REESE: Hey, Finch. Got eyes on the Petrosians, getting ears. These guys have serious money, Finch. You probably go to the same country club. Do they seem like a family that's lost a baby? ADNAN [OVER RADIO]: Behavior has damaged this family's good name. I've already spent a fortune getting you out of trouble. Well, I'm so sorry I embarrassed you, Dad. I wanna know. Is this it? Or are there more unpleasant surprises? It's been taken care of, okay? Looks like mommy and daddy are covering up for the son. How about a delicious bottle? REESE: Finch? Are you listening? - Mm. Oh, there you go. [PHONE RINGS] - Detective Carter's phone. - Can I have Detective Carter, SVU? Carter works Homicide, sweetheart, not SVU. This is Carter. How can I help you? It's Mary Abbot. The man on the phone said you worked Homicide. Oh, don't worry about him, he's new here. How can I help you, Mary? Leila did have something on her when she arrived. A bracelet. Do you still have it? I gave it to the director, Dr. Adalian. I asked him, but he said he didn't remember. What did it look like? It was silver with two initials carved on it. C.C. Okay, thank you, Mary. I'll talk to you soon. Detective, I've found one C. C. Working in the Petrosian home, Carrie Crosswell. But she's 58, little old for a fling. Now I'm checking employee files at Petrosian Construction. - You hacked into his company? - Hacked is such an ugly word. And we have two more C.C.'s. Chad Colombo, 40, a welder. Unlikely to bear a child. And Claudia Cruz, 20, receptionist in the head office. Claudia Cruz, checking. Employment with Petrosian ended eight months ago. Her pregnancy would have started to show. Get me an address. I'll go and talk to her. No, you won't. She's dead. Name showed up on a crime scene report. Died in her apartment from a fire four days ago. ME ruled it as an accident. WOMAN 1: Oh, cute, can we say hi? WOMAN 2: Oh, she's so adorable. WOMAN 1: Hi, honey. WOMAN 2: Look at that smile. WOMAN 1: Thanks, bye. You brought her with you? Every cop in the city is looking for that kid. I'm teaching her to go undercover. She's a natural. She's a little angel. If something happens, so help me God FINCH: We're trying to stop anything from happening. We know she was in a clinic funded by the Petrosians and we know her mother worked for the Petrosians. So it's probable that the father is one of the Petrosians. Why does mom end up dead? Maybe she agreed to give her up for adoption, but then changed her mind said she wanted to keep her. That would expose the whole thing. DNA would prove who the father was. He'd have to provide for the baby. - The family would lose out. - It's motive. Bump off the mom, make the baby disappear. Problem solved. We need to find out if Claudia's death really was an accident. I already pulled the autopsy and crime scene reports. I wanna look through them with a mentor, works for the Fire Department. Good. I'll see if Claudia's parents know anything. John will follow Bradley Petrosian. After I've fed Leila. CARTER: Bye-bye. Mrs. Cruz. Lucas Bennet, Department of Family Services. - Says he's here about Claudi. - I'm very sorry for your loss. Why are you here? We had a report, um from a neighbor of Claudia's. Uh, an anonymous report that she was pregnant. She was not. - Tell me who said that. - Please, Mr. Cruz. The source is anonymous. We have to investigate. Claudia wasn't pregnant. I'm her mother. We talked about everything. When did Claudia move into her apartment? About nine months ago. Why? About the same time that she stopped working at Petrosian Construction? Did you see her during that period? Not for a few months, no. She was kind of funny about us coming around. - Did Claudia have a silver bracelet? - Yes. With her initials on it. My mother gave it to her when she was a baby. Please, just tell us. Was she pregnant? Did she have a baby? - We believe it's possible. - Then where is it? Can we see it? I can try to arrange a meeting on neutral ground. - It would have to be kept confidential. - Oh, of course. What else can you tell me about Claudia? Was she in a relationship, for example? She left some papers here about a month before she died. We found this. I think he's Mr. Petrosian's son, Bradley. FINCH [OVER EARBUD]: Any luck, Mr. Reese? Bradley Petrosian has been a good student. Hasn't phoned anyone. He hasn't spoken to any suspicious characters. So are we barking up the wrong tree? Maybe. Hang on. He's meeting someone. Finch. - You were right about the wrong tree. - What? I don't think Bradley Petrosian was sleeping with Claudia Cruz. - Sorry? - His tastes run in the other direction. FINCH: So we should look at the father, Adnan. I'll get eyes on him. - How's our baby doing? - Oh, she's Reese, you'd better get back here. ALVAREZ: Makes sense. Lots of candles. One catches the drapes Do we know why she didn't run? Blood screen showed traces of alcohol. So she was drinking, she fell asleep, faulty smoke alarm. Fire marshal said the battery was dead. Battery isn't the problem, wiring is. The hot wire is just plastic coating. The wire itself was removed. No connection, no alarm. Dead battery could be an accident, but this - You got the autopsy photos? - Yeah. ME said heat caused the cracks, not trauma. High temperatures can cause the skull to fissure. Cracks go along the plate lines of the skull. There is no natural plate line there. - It was caused by a blow. - Yeah. She was unconscious when the fire was set. But a blow with what? The bone was cracked, wasn't pierced or shattered. Something round. Like this? Could be. You wash the soot off that, you might get lucky. Heat can etch fingerprints into the metal. Could give you your killer. - How could you let her go? - I didn't. She knocked down the books and walked off. She can't walk, Finch. Oh, God. I'll never forgive myself. [COOING] Give it to me now, Leila. - Please, just give it to me. - Have you got her? - Oh, my God. That's a grenade. - Please just - Just a tear gas grenade. - It's still a grenade. You're okay. You're okay, sweetie, come on. It's okay. - I told you to move your arsenal. - I was going to. When? After the whole place has blown up? You know how I feel about guns. This really isn't working, one of us always being here, minding the baby. - You're the one who stole her. - Thanks for reminding me of that. I'm gonna take her to her grandparents. They can keep an eye on her until we neutralize the threat. - Finch, the bad guys got to Claudia. - Here we go. They could be after Sammy and Veda too. That's why I've already moved them to a safe house. Are you working a case without me? An accidental death. Might turn out to be a homicide. - Who is it? - Girl named Claudia Cruz. Just left the crime scene, might have found the murder weapon. [PHONE RINGING] Szymanski. I am so sorry, I got caught up. I'll be there as soon as possible. Anything I can do? Think you could take these down to the crime lab for me? - Ask them to put a rush on it? - Yeah, sure. - Thanks. - But is that it? Szymanski, isn't he Organized Crime? Carter, you know I got your back, right? [SIGHS] Szymanski asked me out on a date. Can you not spread it around, please? I'll try not to. Why don't you go ahead, I'll run this down to the lab, all right? Thanks, Lionel. I owe you. I'll check if it's clear. [MAN SHOUTING IN ALBANIAN] [GUNSHOT] [GRUNTING] [GUNSHOT] [TIRES SCREECHING] Finch. FINCH: What did you get? There was a GPS tracker on their car. It's not your fault. I'm sorry. You're still in danger. We have to move you again. Can you get your things? REESE: We don't recover Leila tonight she'll be out of the country gone for good. Any idea who those men were? They were Albanians or Croats probably one of the Eastern European crime groups. What are you gonna do? Whatever I have to. How come I only ever see you or Szymanski? If this Elias is such a big deal, where's the rest of the N.Y.P. D? You got a bad memory, Gianni. Elias just tried to kill you. The more cops know you're here, the more chance of him finding you. So for your own sake, help us find him first. [PHONE RINGS] - Carter. - Hey. Yeah, I was in the crime lab. They said they had a rush job for you on some murder weapon. - The Claudia Cruz case. - They get anything? Yep, they got a match. Killer was in the system thanks to a road-rage incident about 10 years ago. - What's the name? [YELLS] ADNAN: Who are you? What do you? [ADNAN GAGGING] NICOLA: Security. - Where is she? - What? Who? SECURITY GUARD: Hey! [GRUNTING] The owner of this kidnapped Leila. Tell me where he's taken her. I don't know. I swear to God I don't. You had an affair with Claudia Cruz, didn't you? Okay, yes. You had Claudia killed, the baby kidnapped. No. I would never do anything like that. - What are you gonna do, torture him? ADNAN: Unh! [PHONE RINGS] You've tripped the silent alarm. Police will be here in 5 minutes. REESE: I'm not going to torture him. Because your fingerprints are on the weapon that killed Claudia. - Nicola, what did you do? - Shut up. Did you hire the men that took Leila? Did you? - Yes. - Call them. I can't. The number doesn't work anymore. - Where'd you get it? - Family. In Europe. I called, a man answered. I told him the problem. Once I paid him, he said the number would be dead and I couldn't contact him, not even to stop the job. And the job was to make Claudia's death look like an accident and get rid of the baby. - How could you do such a thing? - Somebody had to clean up your mess. And there's nothing you can do. They're gone. [ROCK MUSIC PLAYING OVER SPEAKERS] [CHATTERING] I want the man that owns this. [GROANING] He has kidnapped a child. A baby. I wanna know where he is. Really? [GRUNTS] REESE: One more time. - How do I find him? - I don't know. I will kill you. So kill me, but I still don't know. Your baby's gone. Whoever it was just handed him over. Even he couldn't tell you. So go ahead, shoot. So no one knows where she is. Not no one. There is someone who knows the underworld the soldiers, the gangs, the syndicates. Come on. You're not serious. - Do you still have that burner phone? - No. We can't use it. Leila is in the hands of men who won't hesitate to kill her if things go bad. It's still too risky. I'm all out of moves, Finch. Risk is all I've got left. I have to make the call. Why would he even agree to meet with you? Because he'll be curious. [MUFFLED GRUNTING] John. It's good to see you again. So tell me, did you fall out with your boss? Are you looking for a job? - I'm looking for help. - From me? - Why would I help you? - I saved your life. You did, didn't you? But you also broke up a little family reunion that I had planned. That was you, wasn't it? Honest to a fault. What's this about? Someone kidnapped a child, murdered her mother. Just like Moretti murdered your mother. Stole your childhood. I survived. This child won't. She's six months old. A baby. I know you're aiming to take over the city but to control it, you need rules. People start targeting children then there are no rules. No winners. - Who's behind the kidnapping? - Eastern Europeans. They've been paid to get the baby out of the country. And they're moving her tonight. Their remit doesn't extend south of Jersey. They'll hand it off to the Mexicans. They're the people smugglers. A hand-off like that you can find out where it's happening and you can get me there. Hand over's at 1637 Camden. You might get there in time. I would have just shot you but the boss has got a soft spot for you. [BABY CRYING] MAN 1: There's no one in it. MAN 2: Over there. [GRUNTS] Last chance. Put your weapons down and walk away. Okay, all right. Whatever you say, man. Stop. I have the baby. I said stop. - Put the bag down. - No. You'll just shoot me. You're right. [GUNSHOT] REESE: It's okay, Leila. You're okay. I got you. Finch. I've got Leila. I'm bringing her back. She's okay. Won't be long. - Okay. - Sorry. - Boss had a change of heart. - John? [GRUNTS] What have you done with the baby? [LEILA WHIMPERING THEN CRYING] She's right here, John. We had an agreement. But then I realized there is something you can do for me. Tell me where Moretti is. I don't know. ELIAS: This is a refrigerated truck, John. It'll get very cold in there. You'll be able to hold off for a few hours, I imagine. This little one, on the other hand Elias. - Just shout if you change your mind. - Don't do this. [CRYING] Elias. Elias! Anything on Carter yet? I followed her. Learned something. What? What'd you learn? She, um She had a pizza. She's got a thing for pepperoni. And I got a dead body with your name on it. Don't think I won't use it. Find out where she's got Moretti. [LEILA CRYING] REESE: Just hold on, Leila, please. [GRUNTING] [SCREAMS] - Hey, Fusco. - Yeah. Crime lab came through, wanna go arrest Claudia Cruz's murderer? Yeah, sure. Why not? [PHONE RINGS] Okay. One second, I gotta take this. - Carter. - Detective. John recovered the baby, but then I lost him. Lost him? And the baby? Last known location: - Anything you can do, detective. Please. - Okay. Sorry, Lionel. Something's come up. Nicola Petrosian. She's all yours. [CRYING] REESE: Come here. Come on, baby. Come on. Come on, baby. Come on. Elias. ELIAS: Yes, John? All right. - You win. - We both win, John. Where's Moretti? - What guarantee do I have? - You don't. Fourteen sixty-five Jefferson. Queens. Thank you, John. You're right, I would never harm a child. But then, I knew you wouldn't either. - Goodbye, John. - Elias! Elias! [ENGINE STARTS] [GRUNTING] Come on, baby. Come on. Come on, baby. Cry, cry. Leila's in the truck. I gotta take your car. - What on earth happened? - Elias happened. [CRYING] [PHONE RINGS] Carter. Elias knows where Moretti is. - How does he know? - I'm on my way. Just get over there. [LINE DIALING] Szymanski. Carter. We've been blown. Get Moretti out of there. Now. Gianni. It's Szymanski. Gianni. - You're just in time for a drink. - Afraid not. Carter says we gotta move. Quick, get your stuff. Are you there, Mr. Reese? I'm here. So is Carter. [MAN COUGHS] - Oh, no. - Unh. CARTER: I need a bus, 1465 Jefferson, Queens. Officer down with a gunshot to the abdomen. I repeat, officer down. [MAN SPEAKS INDISTINCTLY OVER RADIO] - Moretti. - They got him. How did Elias know? I told him. I had to give up the safe house to save the baby. John, why were you even talking to Elias? I had no choice. We lost the kid. [SIGHS] CARTER [OVER EARBUD]: You say there was no choice but there was, John. It's called the police. It's what we do. I can't do this anymore. I can't. You and your friend. I'm sorry. [SIRENS WAILING IN DISTANCE] Go on. This place will be swarming. Go. Go! [COOING] Bye, Leila. You be a good girl. Thank you so much. Be nice to have a child. Children. Think that'll ever happen? Probably not. Our line of work Trouble with children, you never know how they're gonna turn out. Hello, Dad.
FINCH: You are being watched. The government has a secret system. A machine that spies on you every hour of every day. I know because I built it. I designed the machine to detect acts of terror, but it sees everything. Violent crimes involving ordinary people. People like you. Crimes the government considered irrelevant. They wouldn't act, so I decided I would. But I needed a partner. Someone with the skills to intervene. Hunted by the authorities, we work in secret. You will never find us. But victim or perpetrator, if your number's up, we'll find you. FINCH: Good morning, Mr. Reese. - If you say so. - Any croquillants in there? - If that's a donut, then yes. So, what do we got? Not much, unfortunately. The machine kicked out a number that has one of the smallest digital footprints I've ever seen. No photos? Not everyone in New York has a driver's license, Mr. Reese. First three digits of the social suggest that Jordan Hester was born in Georgia. I'm supposed to recognize him by his accent? Or her. I can't even verify the gender. Hester's living off the grid. No photos online and nothing on the social networking sites. Never understood why people put all their information on those sites. Used to make our job a lot easier in the CIA. Of course. That's why I created them. You're telling me you invented online social networking, Finch? The machine needed more information. People's social graph, their associations. Government had been trying to figure it out for years. Turns out people were happy to volunteer it. Business wound up being quite profitable too. Unfortunately, Jordan Hester seems to be more cautious than most. But I was able to run a credit check. According to this, Hester's got two of everything. Two bank accounts, two apartments, two phone bills. If I had to guess, which you know I hate doing I'd say we're looking at a person leading a double life. Can't cover them both. Time for you to get some fresh air. I'll call Carter, see if our guy or girl has a criminal record. Is that a good idea? Detective Carter's not exactly your number one fan right now. [CELL PHONE RINGING] Lo and behold, Detective Carter at an actual homicide investigation. Tired of chasing around your mystery man? - What do we got? - Ah, African-American male. TERNEY: Seventeen years old, DOA. Thanks to this genius over here. They got into an argument over a girl. GIRL: Murderer! But this is open and closed. The kid already confessed. Did he say why he did it? He said, and I quote, "What was I supposed to do?" - And then he said it was our fault. - Yeah? How does that follow? Said we weren't here to stop him. [TERNEY CHUCKLES] [CELL PHONE RINGING] - One second. - Sure. [GIRL WHIMPERING] There was nothing I could do. FINCH: I'm at the apartment in the Village. - Are you at the one in Brooklyn? REESE: Yep. - Any sign of Hester at your location? - It'd help if I knew what I was looking for. Hello. Thank you. Thank you so much. Last one in pays for lunch. FINCH: I'm in the mood for Indian. - Any response from Detective Carter? REESE: Still not answering my calls. Maybe you should try her. FINCH: Carter's issue isn't with you, Mr. Reese. It's with your methods. [DEVICE BEEPS] Our methods. Not to mention that you gave up a witness under her protection and nearly got a cop killed in the process. REESE: Nobody's perfect, Finch. FINCH: This is very Bohemian. Maybe Hester's an artist or a writer. No photos, though. What are you seeing? Well, it's very Spartan. Just a desk, mattress, some free weights, not much else. - Maybe it's Hester's office. REESE: In a different apartment building? Found a money roll marked with Hester's initials. Mostly small bills. REESE: Just going through his garbage. I got some receipts. "The Hammer 'n' Nail." That pub is just around the corner from here. Receipt shows an employee discount. Money could be from a tip pool. I'm gonna check it out. If he lives and works in Brooklyn, what's this place for? [ROCK MUSIC PLAYING OVER SPEAKERS] - What can I get you? - Whatever's on tap. MAGGIE: Hester! What's taking you so long? They were under a bunch of other boxes. Finch, I got eyes on Hester. He's working as a bar back. Bar back? How can he afford to keep up the rent on both places? WOMAN: Thanks for all the help. It's much heavier than I thought. MAN: Yeah. Well [INDISTINCT CHATTERING] WOMAN: Much warmer than yesterday. MAN: I know, I know. Okay. So, anything else I can do, Ms. Hester? No. And for the last time, Ray, please call me Jordan. [RAY LAUGHS] [WHISPERING] Mr. Reese, you may have eyes on Hester, but I have ears on her. - What? - Jordan Hester. She's here in her apartment. This isn't one person living a double life. It's two people living one. - Welcome back. - I suppose I should thank you for making them evacuate the building. Thank the automatic sprinkler system. So we still have no idea who Jordan Hester is. Well, at least we narrowed it down. FINCH: Two people, one Social Security number. Only one can be Hester, so someone is an impostor. Good luck telling who's who. Well, we'd better decide quickly. Usually when the machine gives us a number we have only 24 to 48 hours before something happens. Shouldn't we be able to track down a birth certificate? Long-form birth certificates are hard to get. Most medical records over 20 years old aren't digitized anywhere. We're not dealing with a typical identity thief, are we? Normally they would steal your money and go on a shopping spree. - This one's stealing a whole life. - Get anything from the woman's laptop? E-mails and contact lists. Nothing that indicates she's not the real Jordan Hester. I blue-jacked our guy's phone, went through his recent calls. - He rented a van last week. - Maybe he'll finally buy some furniture. We'll need to keep eyes on both of them until we figure this out. We're still gonna need an extra hand. Will the real Jordan Hester please stand up? Hello, Lionel. [ROCK MUSIC PLAYING OVER SPEAKERS] Nice job handing Moretti over to Elias. I had no choice. You got HR buzzing. Don't worry, though. I'm close to finding the major players. I didn't ask you here to talk about HR. I've got an assignment for you. I need you to dig up everything you can on Jordan Hester. You got me undercover for HR now you want me above the board too? Make up your mind. I didn't realize it was my job to make yours easier, Lionel. Good cop, bad cop, it's my life we're playing with. It's not your life I'm focused on right now, is it? Someone needs our help. - Which one? - Exactly. I'll see what I can do. [CUSTOMERS LAUGHING] REESE: Hey, Finch, what's your Hester up to? FINCH: Six hours and all she's done is run errands. - Probably go to the post office next. - My Hester's still at work. FINCH: We're dealing with the two most ordinary people on the planet. One of them is not what they seem. FINCH: I did more digging on that credit report, found something interesting. A luxury co-op ordered a credit check six months ago. Might be worth a look. You're not telling me there's a third Jordan Hester? I don't think so. One of our Hesters rented a large apartment there. But the man at the front desk says he's never met him. Or her. My Hester's still in the middle of his shift. I'll check it out. We pull a double homicide? I'm doing a favor for a friend over in Vice. - You ever work an identity-theft case? - Every arrest I ever made. They always say I got the wrong guy. [LAUGHING] Must be nice, helping out people who are still alive. Everything okay? Detective Carter. I'm Special Agent Donnelly. We worked together on the Delancey shooting last month. Right, of course. What brings you back to the 8th? You, actually. What's this about? You sent a set of fingerprints through AFIS a few months back. I work Homicide. That tends to happen. Yeah, well, these got our attention. In your reports, you refer to him as "the Man in the Suit." This may be the same man who assaulted my team and kidnapped a suspect in our custody. The way I remember, the suspect was later cleared of all charges. That's beside the point. Our agents believe this man may be connected to dozens of unsolved homicides and assaults over the years. Many of them here in New York in the last six months. A series of bank robberies involving ex-military the killing of a Stasi operative shootings of drug dealers, gangsters, even police officers. Now, you speculated, based on your initial interview with this man that he was former military, maybe special forces. - It's all in my report. - No. No, it's not. Not by a long shot. When can you spare me an hour, detective? I've got something to show you. REESE: Can I give you a hand with that? WOMAN: Oh, thank you. REESE: I'm taking a look at this third apartment, Finch. FINCH: Look for anything that points to which Hester it belongs to. We're running out of time. We need to find out where the threat's coming from. Don't know which Hester it belongs to but I got an idea what they're mixed up in. I'm standing in the middle of an MDMA lab. Ecstasy? Are you sure? Well, it's either that or someone's really into chemistry. Found a guy who can tell us what's going on. But he's not really in a talking mood right now. I'll have more company soon. Goodbye. At least we know why our ID thief stole Hester's name. MDMA can be made with legal chemicals, but they're monitored. Buy in bulk, you draw attention. - But if you use someone's name REESE: They wind up holding the bag. FINCH: Looks like your Hester's not the only one who's employed. Jordan's e-mails indicate that she works in antiques. FINCH: Maybe as a buyer or a dealer. REESE: Jordan? Are you on a first-name basis already? No, I'm just tired of using pronouns. REESE: Hey, Finch, our ecstasy cook just woke up. HYDE: What happened? JEKYLL: Ugh. Some guy broke in, got the drop on me. HYDE: Well, he didn't take anything. We got a bigger problem now. The boss wants to meet. What? Four years, we've never even seen the boss. - Why are we meeting now? - I don't know. This can't be good. Come on, meeting's in an hour. Hester's name is on the lease for that co-op. Odds are either your Hester or mine is the boss. We need to stay close. FINCH: Oh, dear. I think I just lost her. Ah. Sometimes I wonder if he'd be published today. I'd be first in line. But, then, meandering exposition is kind of my thing. I'm sorry, I didn't mean to intrude. Oh, no, that's - I'm Harold. - Jordan. [CELL PHONE RINGS] Excuse me a moment. - Why are you calling me? REESE: Why are you talking to her? I haven't your gift for avoiding people. Besides, she seems nice and has excellent taste in literature. Or she knows you're tailing her. - She circled back for a closer look. - I'm taking off. See you tomorrow. Hester's on the move. He could be meeting up with the cooks. FINCH: I've lost her again. FINCH: What did that drug cook look like? Big, kind of terrifying? Not even close. If we've mistaken her for a drug dealer, isn't it possible someone else has too? Anything's possible, Finch. Did you bring a weapon? I told you, Mr. Reese. I don't like weapons. You'd better be prepared to talk them to death and you'd better do it fast. I think I know which of them is the imposter. Which means your Hester is in trouble. Jordan, you forgot your jacket. You're in danger. Come with me. - Who were those guys? - Don't look back. Just keep walking. - So you're the boss? - Yeah, that's right. Don't take this the wrong way, but why are we meeting in person? Someone's on to us. We finish this batch and relocate. - We're low on safrole. - I got it covered. Looks like we know who's who. REESE: My guy's the drug dealer. And your drug dealer has placed the real Jordan Hester in danger. HESTER: All right, come on. Hurry up. Let's go. [CELL PHONE RINGS] - Hello, Lionel. - Your guy might be cooking ecstasy. - Is that so? FUSCO: He got arrested six months ago when one of his distributors got popped. Narcotics found evidence he bought chemicals. The distributor couldn't pick him out of a lineup. They cut Hester loose. All the distributor knew was a name. He'd never met the boss. So if that's it, maybe I could just go back to doing my job for you. REESE: Not just yet. Hester, or whatever his name is, is serious about protecting his identity. Maybe serious enough to kill. - Go after the girl? REESE: That's what I need to know. Which means you need to find out how he stole her identity. JORDAN: Who were those guys? FINCH: They may be in the drug trade and they think you are too. FINCH: Thanks. That's who stole my identity, a drug dealer? So you know about the ID theft? I've known for a few weeks. I think it's been going on for months. I called my credit card company, my bank. They told me to call the police. The cops just kept telling me to fill out more reports and call the bank. White-collar crime is at the bottom of every police department's to-do list. - I take it you're not a cop. - Not quite. - Private investigator? - It's very Raymond Chandler, isn't it? But the reality is a bit more mundane, I'm afraid. Mostly following people around and taking pictures. - Why were you following me? - I've been hired by another victim. The police didn't do anything for him either. - So, what do I do now? - Right now? Breathe deep, have a cup of tea. I have someone keeping an eye on the man that stole your identity. Soon as we have enough proof to arrest him, we'll get the police involved. - You Franklin? - You must be Fusco. Detective Dez Franklin, ID Theft Squad. - How can I help? - Jordan Hester. She's our vic. A man stealing a woman's identity? That's a new one. Been going on for about a year now. FRANKLIN: Not a shopping spree at Best Buy. He's using her ID as a cover for criminal activity, right? We think he's cooking E. - Seriously? - Why do you find that so strange? This case last year, suspect claimed he was innocent. - Said somebody stole his identity. - No one believed him? My unit catches upwards of a hundred new complaints every day. Can't bring us in every time somebody says he didn't do it. - What charge? Manufacture with intent, making Ecstasy. Kyle Morrison. Pretty sure he's still locked up. That's my cue. I'm Detective Franklin. I'd like to talk about credit card thefts. We already know about the scanner you keep under your apron MAN: N.Y.P.D. Homicide. - It's Detective Fusco. I'm looking for Kyle Morrison. Can you tell me where he's held? Let me see that. REESE: Hope you're enjoying your tea, Finch. I'm gonna take a closer look at Hester's van. REESE: Aah. Guy takes his computer with him everywhere. He's even more careful than you are, Finch. I might need a little help cracking his Never mind. Laptop's not password-protected. Guess he's not as careful as I thought, Finch. Okay, not seeing any secret accounts full of drug profits or messages about business. MAN [OVER COMPUTER]: To give you more leverage and control recoil. Since when do seasoned drug dealers need how-to tips from the Internet? [CELL PHONE BEEPING] Oh, I missed a client meeting. What do you do for a living? Technically, I'm a freelance buyer, but no one really knows what that means. - Buyer of what? - Antiques. I love old stuff. - Like books? - Especially books. I can't afford to buy the stuff I like. So people hire me and I buy old stuff for them. Kind of like an interior decorator with cobwebs. - Sounds like fun. - Well it's an embarrassing use of an Arts degree, but it's my dream. Someday I'd love to own my own shop. That is if this whole ID thing hasn't permanently ruined my credit. Or I don't wind up dead. Any idea when I can go home? It's too dangerous right now. What if these guys figured out where you live? - We should get you a hotel room. - Can I at least pack a bag? - I'm not sure that's wise. - Even if you came with me? So this is our entire next shipment? Where'd you get this stuff? Smells a little different. That's because it's even more pure. Now let's start the cook. This batch will be ready in, what, [LAUGHS] If my nana was cooking it. You're Homicide? You guys think I killed someone too? FUSCO: That's not why I'm here. What, so you just want to rub it in? - Well, congratulations, you got me. - I thought you didn't do it. I'm not a drug dealer. I've been saying that for a year. Nobody's believed me. Once a suspect, always a suspect. Isn't that the official N.Y.P.D. Motto? When did you know your identity was first stolen? Cops knocked down my door, put a gun to my head. And that was, what, a year ago? The more I talked to you guys, the more you twisted my words. So, you know, maybe today I'm not in the mood. We think what happened to you may have happened to someone else. Sit down. Look, I know you got no reason to trust me. I know exactly how you feel. Everyone's got you wrong. Everyone thinks you're something you're not. No way to change their mind. You help me catch this guy and I'll see about getting you out of here. - You believe me? - Until you give me a reason not to. When it When it started, it was just the money. I'd call the bank, they'd close the account, but then another one would pop up. Before long my credit was shot, my savings were gone. Couldn't pay my mortgage, I couldn't support my family. And then the cops came rolling up. - You got kids? - My boy's 9. Missed my daughter's second birthday last month. Her mother doesn't want anything to do with me anymore. Look, you help me catch this guy and I'll do my best to get you home to see your little girl. I give you my word. Something's not right here. Damn it. We're out of time. The cops are on their way now. What? How? HESTER: Who cares? We gotta get this merch out of here fast. - What about the cook? - Forget it. Lab's burned. Wipe everything down for prints. I'm gonna pack this stuff up. It's okay. - Okay. - Why are there towels everywhere? Yeah, sprinkler system went off yesterday. Some idiot pulled the alarm. How odd. I've arranged a hotel room for you, if you want to collect your things. JORDAN: Uh, in a minute. We really shouldn't linger. I know, but after the day I've had, I could use something a little stronger than tea. [JORDAN LAUGHS] Here's the victim's accounts. You recognize any of these charges? Hardware stores. There were a lot of those on my accounts too. Bulk purchase of chemicals. That's what the cops used as evidence against me. - Supplies for the labs. - I guess. Recognize anything else? Okay, these are the bank statements. - Recognize anything here? - Wait. Why do you have a picture of her? - That's Jordan Hester. She's the victim. - No, no, no, that's Mary. She was the receptionist at my accountant's office. FUSCO: Mary? Excuse me a minute. When you're done, get the hell out. I'll be in touch when I find a new lab. Get one with skylights like the last one. It's better ventilation for when we heat the phosphorus. Yeah, sure. Whatever you want. Let's move. Phosphorus is used to make meth, boss. And the last place didn't have any skylights. Who the hell are you? I think we may have gotten this backwards. REESE: My Hester's not the identity thief, which means yours is. [CELL PHONE BEEPS] I know. Something wrong, Harold? I don't know who you are, but you're not the boss. Don't be an idiot. Put the gun down. Boss, boss, the cops are outside. Everybody grab what they can. That guy knocked me out. [GUN COCKS] We don't have time for this. I know you're the real Jordan Hester. Then you know I'm not going anywhere. I don't think I feel very well. In fact I'm certain of it. [FINCH PANTING] I feel quite discombobu [MUMBLING] It'll pass, Harold. Don't worry, pretty soon you'll feel much better. Tell me who you are. Who I am doesn't matter right now. What matters is I know who you are. Who am I, then? Stay back. I will shoot you. How? The safety's still on. No offense, but I'm surprised you fooled these guys as long as you did. Is that really how you think a drug dealer dresses? I know you're the real Jordan Hester. I know your life was stolen. Here. I even know who stole it. Do the other one. - Well, who stole it? - First things first. What exactly was your plan? You were accused of being a drug dealer. - So then you decided to become one? - Well, no one would believe me. And I was always a bit of an introvert, you know? A private person. Yeah, I know the type. Never thought that I would be punished for it. My old boss, the police. People hear you're a drug dealer, they stop listening to you. When have you ever hit bottom? I never realized how far down I could go. After a while I figured, if people keep thinking I'm this bad guy why do I keep trying to convince them that I'm not? Someone stole your identity, so you decided to steal theirs. Well, yeah, but only long enough to destroy this lab. That's nitric acid, not safrole. It'll melt all this into mush, destroy this equipment. Then I was gonna take the rest of the supply about a half a million dollars' worth to lure that bastard out into the open. - And then what, kill him? I don't want to kill anybody. I just want my identity back. Okay. It's a terrible plan. But I like it, so let's do it. Oh. First thing you need to know, the bastard isn't a he, she's a she. Finch, are you there? - I most certainly am. REESE: You need to get out of there. He wasn't planning to kill her. She must still be planning to kill him. - Why, I never. JORDAN: Harold? You all right? I believe you've drugged me. Ecstasy. I told you you'd feel better. My dopamine and norepinephrine levels are: [WHISTLES] But if I understand this process, I can counter the eff Oh, wow. Well, hello there. Well, it was either this or shoot you. I find chemistry so much more efficient. REESE: Finch, I've got this end under control. We're preparing a surprise for our mutual friend. Our Mutual Friend, Charles Dickens, published 1864-65. The plot turns on a case of concealed identity! How ironic. Hey, do you have a copy? - What? - What? Finch, are you all right? Never been all righter, but I might have been outfoxed. Finch outfoxed. REESE: Finch, what's going on? Wow, wow. REESE: What the hell are you doing? Fin FINCH: Wow. Finch? Hey, hey, hey, that is my very good friend. Who was it? Who is he? Where is he? Nowhere that matters. And not in the lab. Oh, no. Josef, it's me. You need to get to the lab. No, now. We've got bigger problems than I thought. I'm taking care of things here. I'll meet you there. [CRACKLING] I like your face sideways. I'm sorry, Harold. Mm. [CRACKLING] REESE: Fast as you can, Fusco, - Finch is in trouble. - All right, I'm on it. [SIREN WAILING] You've got security clearance from your time in the Army. I can show you this. FBI doesn't run classified ops unless there's issues of national security. Used to be the CIA worked closely with us. Then they stopped. Extreme action became the norm. Kidnappings, renditions, assassinations. Worse, we think they did some of these things right here in the U.S. And to run these ops they needed dangerous, often sociopathic men. Like the one you've been chasing. But at some point, we think this man left the agency. Initially the pattern was chaotic, but now a trend has emerged. We think we know what he's doing here in New York. And what is that? We think he's selling his services to the highest bidder. We've seen it before. Mexican Special Forces taking over the drug trade in Juarez. Ex-British SAS selling blood diamonds in Liberia. Men like that, when they're done fighting there's no place for them in society. Which makes them very dangerous. We believe he's been working with organized crime. - Specifically a man named Elias. - You think he's working for Elias? A contact in the Russian mob told us he took out a team they sent to kill Elias. Now, the CIA is already trying to clean up this mess. We know that you've been contacted by this man, Agent Snow. We believe that he's the man the agency uses to sweep these domestic ops under the rug. Tell me. What's the Bureau's interest in this? What's your interest? You wanna put one over on the CIA? Yes, I wanna expose the CIA for what it's become but mainly I wanna catch him. We can't have rogue government hit men operating on domestic soil. Obviously you feel the same. That's why you've been so vigilant in pursuing him. - Well, without much luck. - So far. But you've been working alone. Now you'll have the Bureau's support. We're going back to all the old cases. Reinterviewing witnesses. Looking at physical evidence. So beyond your report, is there anything else you can share with us? Nothing comes to mind. But I'll keep you informed. Rest assured, detective, we'll find him. - You alone? - What? Hello, detective. Just in time for dinner. Have a seat. Almost ready. Fast food. Very bad. FUSCO: What is that? - She made it for me. It's some kind of flamb. Wait, wait, wait, it's not quite ready. Come on, let's get you out of here. This way, this way. FUSCO: I got him. - Good. Thanks, Lionel. I'll call you soon as we're clear. Let's go. JOSEF: Move. Drop the bags. Drop the bags. Hello, Mr. Hester. Did you think you could take over my operation? - Well, you're here, aren't you? - Touch. I'm thinking of keeping your name a little longer. After all, I'm a better Jordan Hester than you've ever been. Get rid of them. More than enough chemicals in here to deal with the bodies. REESE: Wait, wait, wait, I got something important to show you. JOSEF: Yeah, yeah, what's that? - Hydrochloric acid. You don't want me to drop this. - You're lying. - Yeah? Ah! [GRUNTS] [JOSEF GRUNTING] Relax, it's just water. [GRUNTING] Time to finish this, don't you think? [LAUGHING] Hey, knock it off. [SIREN WAILING] [SIREN STOPS] - Where are we going? - I'm gonna take down some bad guys. You're gonna stay in the car. Here. FINCH: What am I supposed to do with this? I found what connects the two Hesters. A discount tax prep chain. Same accountant. You're gonna help me track him down. You know how to work this? Ah. Oh. You wanna hack the Pentagon? RICHARD: We had to meet here? Relax, Richard. Dinners with clients are a write-off. You should know that. I can't keep doing this, Mary. I could lose my job. Okay, you give me what I want or you're gonna lose a lot more than your job. Now, who do I get to be next? - You said a woman this time, right? - Well, men tend to hold a grudge. Try this one instead. Your name's not Mary either. It's Tara. You can run along. Nice mug shot. Impressive rap sheet too. Arrests for shoplifting, forging checks, insurance fraud. Torched your own name by the time you were 23. What now? You gonna kill me? For a while I thought I might have it in me. But then I was just playing you, wasn't I? [SIREN APPROACHING] For the record, you make a terrible Jordan Hester. FRANKLIN: There she is. Tara Verlander. Oh. You're under arrest. We'll get to the charges later. Gonna take some time to sort this out. POLICEMAN: Stand up. Thank you. For giving me my life back. You're welcome. How did you track down her old mug shot? Police work. Even I do it on occasion. - I'm surprised you didn't want the collar. - Too high-profile. Plus I think HR's taking a cut of her operation. Which do you like better? Good cop or bad cop? You tell me. Am I under with HR or am I working cases with you? I'll let you know. [CELL PHONE RINGING] [RINGING CONTINUES] GUARD 1: On the gate. [GATE BUZZES] GUARD 2: Releasing prisoner. FUSCO: You're a free man. MORRISON: Thank you. Go home to that little girl. Whoa. Why didn't you tell me I had so many books? It'll be out of your system in a few hours. But you should really drink this so you don't get dehydrated. You're leaving? No, I'll stick around. I'll keep an eye on you. But you should really get some sleep. You don't want to talk? You might regret it in the morning. You're a very private person, remember? Come on. Ask me anything. Good night, Harold. Good night, Nathan.
FINCH: You are being watched. The government has a secret system. A machine that spies on you every hour of every day. I know because I built it. I designed the machine to detect acts of terror, but it sees everything. Violent crimes involving ordinary people. People like you. Crimes the government considered irrelevant. They wouldn't act, so I decided I would. But I needed a partner. Someone with the skills to intervene. Hunted by the authorities, we work in secret. You will never find us. But victim or perpetrator, if your number's up, we'll find you. ELIAS: I wonder what kind of man I'd be if she hadn't been killed. I hear people change when they lose a parent. Especially when that parent is murdered. Oh. Big test today, right? Always hated Algebra. All those Xs and Ys made my head spin. I don't mind it so much. - Hey, you want to talk about it? - It's no big deal. Seems like it might be. Just some d-bags giving me a hard time for being on scholarship. - I want to know who they are. - No way. Last thing I need is you fighting my battles. I'm not some little kid. I'll take the subway home tonight. I know you're working late. - Pad Thai for dinner? - Yeah. Have a good day, okay? [CELL PHONE RINGS] - Carter. - It's LaBlanca in S.I.D. - You ready for me to make your day? - I won a paid vacation to Hawaii? LaBLANCA: Almost as good. Those accounts you thought belonged to Elias the ones we traced to that investment firm? When you flagged those accounts, they had a balance of 4 million. As of this morning? Not a dime. Elias drained them, Carter. All of them. I'll be there in 10 minutes. FINCH: Bit of a late start, Mr. Reese. You forget to set your alarm? Had my yoga class. Well, I hope you've gotten in touch with your chi. It seems we have a big day ahead of us. We received five numbers this morning. Huh. - Bumper crop. - Meet the heads of the five families. Caparelli, Zambrano Grifoni, Basile, Gianni Moretti, Jr. Moretti's son. Junior took over when Moretti went to prison. Unless all these men suddenly decided to turn on one another it's fair to assume they're being targeted. Short list of people crazy enough to take on the leadership of the Cosa Nostra. Only one, in my opinion. Elias. He's already kidnapped his father. Eliminate the remaining dons, he could control the entire Mafia. I don't know, Finch. We could let the trash take out the trash. I know they encouraged a certain moral flexibility when you worked at the CIA but I like to think that we're reaching for a higher standard. In any case, we need to consider the collateral damage. So we're going to babysit the five most powerful criminals in New York. How do we get close to them? FINCH: These gentlemen meet once a month at the Covenant Club in Brooklyn. No cameras allowed inside the private meeting room and no cell phones. REESE: Won't be easy to spy on these guys. Not even for you, Finch. FINCH: That sounds like a challenge, Mr. Reese. The club recently installed a new fire alarm system. In case of emergency, firefighters communicate with anyone trapped inside through a sound system. But any speaker can be converted to a crude microphone by reversing polarity. Idiots from the Department of Homeland Security can't even take a bribe right. CAPARELLI [OVER FEED]: That shipment was half of what it was supposed to be. - What're we going to do? - Nice work, Finch. [ZAMBRANO CHUCKLES] ZAMBRANO: We'll step on it more than usual. If the customers complain, they can put a note in our suggestion box. [CHUCKLING] Are you kidding me with this? Business as usual like nothing's changed? We're all very sorry for your father's situation, Junior. Situation? My father is probably dead. I want to know what the family will do to retaliate against this Elias. You mean your half-brother? Your old man brought this on himself. He sired a bastard and then had the poor taste to have the mother bumped off. - That's a filthy lie. - No disrespect, Junior. We don't care if you bring Elias over for Thanksgiving. He's a player, brings in cash. You want to work with a man that you know is robbing you? And stealing our territories? ZAMBRANO: It's business, kid. It's not a love affair. We work with him, we all get rich. We need to convey to them that Elias won't be interested in making a deal. I think it's time to update Detective Carter. That could be difficult since she's not speaking to us. An apology might go a long way, Mr. Reese. [CELL PHONE RINGS] If Elias moved all of his money, where did it go? I don't know yet. The funds went out to over a thousand unique payees. Get any names of the people he paid? - It's not that easy. - Yeah, it never is with this guy. Everything is going out as cash or wire transfers. We could trace it, but the warrants would take weeks. What do you think he's buying? Elias doesn't care about material things. He buys people. People who'll murder for money. Cops and politicians who'll look the other way. Well, whatever it is, he just bought a lot of it. ELIAS: You'll have to eat with your hands. I remember you were good with a knife back in the day. They called you The Blade, right? I never understood your generation and their ridiculous nicknames. They just spent too much time growing fat. Soft. Some of them even tried to turn the family legit. Like your son. I mean your real son. Why don't you just kill me already? I would hate for you to miss the show. I'm gonna do what you never had the stones to: I'm gonna unite the families and take control. Oh, that's some plan for a nobody. And you think my associates are gonna go along with this farce? Huh? They won't have a choice. I never learned how to share. My mother might have taught me but she didn't get the chance, did she? FUSCO: Forty-five minutes to Queens. I got a real job, you know. HR is your real job, Fusco. I need some intel on that guy who's stirring things up around town. Tall guy with a suit. Likes shooting people in the kneecaps. Thought he was yesterday's news. Not to the feds. They set up a new task force trying to locate him. We want to know everything they do. See if we can get to him ourselves. Why, you looking to put him on the payroll? - You ask a lot of questions, Fusco. - I got an inquisitive mind. We're doing a job for Elias. Since when does HR work for Elias? We don't work for anybody. We lend a hand when it's in our best interest. Right now, that's Elias. When you're done looking into that matter, I'd call in sick. You don't want to be working Homicide the next couple of days. Are you certain this is the best course of action? Mafiosi don't take kindly to people who approach them unannounced. They're like feral dogs that way. No time for anything but the direct approach, Finch. Besides, I've always been good with dogs. - What, are you lost? - Here to give you a heads up about Elias. He's got plans. And they don't include you and your friends. - You a cop? - Not even close. Frankly, I'd be inclined to let you idiots kill each other. But that could get messy. Your men here can't protect you. But I can. If you come with me. Thanks for your concern, my friend, but I don't need your help. I struck out, Finch. Caparelli wouldn't listen to me. [CAR ALARMS WAILING] FINCH: What happened, Mr. Reese? Elias got to him, Finch. You were right about collateral damage. [CAR ENGINE STARTS] YOUNG ELIAS: I wish they were dead. All of them. - What happened, Carl? - They started it. Calling me names. Ms. Beecher told me you never turned in your term project. That's because it was stupid. Is this it? I'm not a bastard. Is that why you fought them? Who called you that? - Come on. I'll help you fill out the rest. - With what? It's for family. Well, Carl Elias, you got me and your foster sisters. I had a mother. She's gone. Maybe we could do some research. Find some more names to fill in. Like my father? Oh, honey You must've heard something about who he was. Carl, do me a favor, let it go. Do you think he even knows about what happened to my mom? Here's what I know, baby. We are all descended from kings. You gotta live your own life. Be your own man. You understand? [CELL PHONE RINGS] I was wondering when you'd call, John. I heard you witnessed the tragedy earlier this afternoon. I hope you weren't hurt from the explosion. Elias end this before anyone else gets hurt. ELIAS: I'm only doing what's best for the city. So you're going to kill everyone who gets in the way? We're more alike than you'd like to admit. Both killers in our own right. But now you save innocent people like Charlie Burton. Not old gangsters. Just leave those men to me. You know I can't do that. I can't say I'm surprised. I'll see you on the other side. FINCH: We have another problem. Detective Carter. I thought she wasn't answering her calls. She wasn't. But as you know I've always taken a somewhat liberal view of how to use a telephone. She knows that Elias is up to something. She's been reaching out to the remaining dons, offering them police protection. She doesn't know that Elias is planning to take them all out at once. Or that he's got HR's backing. I need her location. Now. You come with me. The rest of you lock down both ends of the block until we get this guy out of here. Understood? - Who are we bringing in, detective? - Don Basile. He's going into protective custody until we can take down Elias. BASILE: You're Carter? CARTER: Yeah. How do I know you're not on Elias's payroll? You can't. You got another option, I recommend you take it. Otherwise, let's move. All right, come on. Come on. Detective. Where'd everyone go? Get back. [GUNSHOTS] Get back! [GUNSHOTS] You really should return your calls, detective. Those new bootleg CDs, boss. I got a whole bunch more in Lou's trunk. MORETTl: Hold on a second, kid. I'd like a word, please. Maybe I should stay, Pop. - Go home. Tell your mother I already ate. - But, Pop, I was just thinking that - You came to us through Lou, right? - That's right, sir. Thing is, I don't know much about you, kid but you look familiar. Along with the name: Elias. I think you know what I mean. My mother was Marlene Elias, sir. I thought so. Beautiful woman. I've been told that, sir. I thought about when this day might come. What I would say to you. What are you doing here, kid? What do you want from me? I just want a job, sir. A chance to learn from the best. To prove myself. You know where diamonds come from, kid? Starts out as carbon, black as coal buried miles beneath the earth. Takes pressure. Temperatures hotter than hell. Billions of years until a volcano blows it to the surface. That is the only way to form a diamond. Never heard that before. I didn't know my father either. I survived. I didn't know that, sir. But, you're here because you figured some things out. So now you and me, we have our own little secret. They tell me you got a pair, kid. Tenacious, capable. I like to think so, sir. You keep your head up, there's a place for you here. Thank you, sir. So nice to finally meet you. CARTER: The officer's stable. Lucky for us, you got good timing. I guess you should know the FBI has a new task force set up in your honor. - They think you're working with Elias. - I'm often misunderstood. I take it things didn't go as expected with Mr. Basile. I don't know who to trust anymore. You can trust us, detective. [SIGHS] Elias transferred $4 million in the past 48 hours to a dozen cash-and-carry hubs around the city. We could use those transfers to track down the men working for him but I can't access their database without a warrant. Maybe I could use other techniques to access the information we need. REESE: If we track down the men on Elias's payroll, that may lead us right to him. In the meantime, I need to convince those old dons that the only way to stay alive is to work with us. - Thanks for the backup. - Uh, if I'm not there next time I want you to be prepared. [CARTER CHUCKLES] Not exactly standard issue. Should I ask where you got these? Probably best if you don't. - Getting shipped to Iraq or something? - I need an assist. Did you bring the extra vest and ammo? Yeah. Just get in. You're the only cop I can trust right now. REESE: Who am I looking at, Finch? I was able to trace the financial transactions out of Elias's accounts. The man you're following is one of the recipients. Elias's payroll reads like a who's who of the U.S. Penal system. REESE: I'm following him, but who's he following? It's a family. - Any idea who they are? - Maybe they're related to the dons. Elias isn't above threatening their loved ones. Right theory wrong organization. Elias's people are following HR families, Finch. FINCH: I don't understand his strategy. HR are his allies. REESE: In war, you need to be able to coerce your allies as much as your enemies. If any of his law-enforcement contacts gets out of line, he has a backup plan. That's what I would do. If you'd listened, we could have gotten him before he went after my father. Detectives, what's so important you bullied your way into our club? You're going into protective custody until we can find Elias. Heh. I don't think so. It's not really up for discussion. You failed to control this man. Some of you tried to cut deals with him. And now he's coming after you. I'm not going to stand by and let innocent civilians get killed because you chose to ignore what was right in front of your nose. Jimmy! Come show the detectives out. What, are you sleeping? Jimmy! Looks like your boys abandoned you. You wanna bet Elias's men aren't far behind? We don't work with cops. You don't want to come voluntarily, I'm gonna take you by force. - Are you gonna shoot us? - If I shoot you maybe Elias won't have to blow up a carload of innocent people. - Shouldn't we call for backup? - You are my backup. [CELL PHONE RINGS] CARTER: Here come Elias's guys. [CELL PHONE RINGING] Hello? It's for you. - Hello? - Turn left, go two blocks to 954 President Street. - You got good timing. Next left, Fusco. Go to the second floor. The code is 3288. Got it. Who owns this place again? A friend. You got some weird friends, Carter. I don't remember a lot about my mom. I was 4 when she died. Of course, you know that. Every so often I get these images of her, especially when I smell her perfume. Shalimar, I think. She had dark hair. Kind eyes. Other times I just see the blood. Just so much blood from such a small person. There was a problem, boss. That detective, the one you wanted gone she took them. - Which one? - All of them. I see. We'll need our friends on the police force to join us on this one. FINCH: Detectives Carter and Fusco are both safe and sound at one of my properties. As are the dons. Good to hear, Finch. How did she convince them to go with her? She didn't. She kidnapped them. It seems you've had something of an influence on her, Mr. Reese. - Thanks, Finch. - I'm not certain that's a compliment. Elias isn't gonna take this lying down, Finch. No sign of him yet, but I've tracked down a dozen of his men. All positioned to strike against the families of HR cops if things don't go his way. Luckily, HR doesn't know where the dons are. Only Carter and Fusco do. Finch. The men that we're tracking are any of them near Marbury High School in Brooklyn? FINCH: Yes. Why? That's where Carter's son goes to school. What was the accident? Is my mom gonna be all right? COP: It's too soon to tell, but I'll take you right to the hospital. [CELL PHONE RINGS] - Hello? FINCH [OVER PHONE]: Taylor? You don't know me but you are in danger, and I want you to stay inside with a teacher until we can get to you. Taylor? Just keep quiet and you won't get hurt. SECURITY GUARD: Hey. I need to see your pass. How long do you think we could stay here? Until we know they're safe. [FUSCO SCOFFS] They're mob bosses, Carter. That ain't gonna happen anytime soon. [CAR DOOR OPENS] CARTER: You gotta be kidding me. How did Elias's men find us? - I thought you shook them off. - I did. We were free and clear. [CELL PHONE RINGING] - What do you have? - Carter, I need to tell you something. You've got to know I'm not gonna let anything happen to him. You understand? - I'll find him. - Find who? What's going on, John? [CELL PHONE BEEPS] Taylor? Taylor. Got a great kid here, detective. I swear to God, if you touch him I'll kill you. ELIAS: You have the means to set him free. You can't call for backup. Who you gonna trust anymore? CARTER: You know I can't hand these guys over to you. I might as well kill them myself. If you're up to it, that would be helpful. Why do you need the bosses dead, Elias? You've already shown how powerful you are. You don't understand the evil you're protecting, do you? Let me tell you something about Zambrano. He earns his living by selling heroin to school children. Grifoni sells guns to the highest bidder. My esteemed half-brother. A man who not only imports drugs, but young girls. These are the men that you're protecting. Things would be much better under your watch, huh? ELIAS: I run an efficient enterprise. There's no infighting, there's no conflict over territory. I am the evolution of organized crime. You're a force of corruption and weakness. My answer is no. He wants to trade Taylor for the dons. - How can I do that? - You can't. You don't have to make that decision. Because I'm gonna get your son back, no matter what the cost. I won't let anyone hurt him. Do you hear me, Carter? Promise me. You have my word. Finch, I need you to tell me where to find the boy. I'm a step ahead of you, Mr. Reese. The only way to locate Taylor is to make a deal with the devil. I hope you're not referring to Elias. Elias isn't the only fallen angel in our rolodex, Mr. Reese. You okay, Carter? They got my kid. You sure not calling backup's the way to go? You don't get it, Fusco. You see those two in the suits? They work Vice at the 15th. They're here to help Elias. Not back us up. What do you wanna do? Wait. Make sure this place is sealed off. All right. I'll do a sweep, make sure it's airtight. You should've been our wheel man, Detective Carter. - I don't think your partner had it in him. - Don't go blaming Fusco. - This isn't on him. - You sure about that? See, because I've got this vague recollection that your partner used to be on the take. In fact, now that I think about it, I'm sure of it. He was partners with that, uh, Detective Stills, right? That dirty cop who went missing a few months back? Those guys had their paws around every game in town. All on the take. And they didn't care because they just threw a piece upstairs. Shaking down low-life drug dealers pimps, whatever scratch they could get. Yeah, they even did some wet work. ELIAS [OVER INTERCOM]: Hello, Detective. I've come to talk it over in person. Are you ready to pick the right side? FINCH: Hello, Officer Simmons. I wonder if I might have a few minutes of your time. Who the hell are you? You gonna tell me who you are or do I have to arrest you? I'd like to talk about your organization. The one commonly referred to as HR. It's come to my attention that HR has been paid a large sum of money to ignore any criminal activities involving a man named Elias. Really? And how exactly did this come to your attention? I notice things, officer. Things the rest of the world ignores. And I've noticed things about Elias that I believe you've overlooked. I doubt that. I'm a pretty observant guy myself. You think Elias stands for a return to the way things used to be. A firm hand on the reins of organized crime. But he also stands for other things. FINCH: This is Elias's surveillance of HR police officers and their families. You're in bed with the devil. This man will go to any length, including kidnapping children. Detective Carter's son is only his most recent victim. I didn't hear anything about that. Look, I recognize, officer that I'm placing myself in danger by sitting here with you. I need you to understand you're placing your family in danger by doing business with Elias. - What is this? - The man following your wife is an ex-con whose prior convictions include rape, manslaughter. Elias is keeping you and yours in check until his plan is finished. After that who knows whether he'll have any use for you. How do I know this guy doesn't work for you? Huh? I imagine you don't. But are you really willing to bet your family's life on it? - What do you want? - Get me the location of Detective Carter's son. And call off any men you have working on Elias's behalf. HR severs its ties with Elias as of this moment. ELIAS: I'm not gonna wait all night, detective. Let him go, Elias. He's got no part in this. Taylor seems like a very nice young man. I'd rather not hurt him. You need to accept the fact that no one's coming to save you. You are all alone. SOLDIER 1: Think, uh I think it's right up over here. Colder than a witch's nip in a brass bra. Where's Don Moretti? Yeah, you tell me, kid. Well, uh, the boss wanted me to tell you he wished he could be here but he couldn't make it. Come on. SOLDIER 1: Talk about brass. Used to be, the dons would clean up their own mess. Moretti didn't have the stones to be here. De Luca told me he made him get rid of the broad back in the day. Now we gotta deal with this miserable bastard. [SOBS] Oh, for crying out loud, here come the waterworks. What's the matter, kid? Not the family reunion you were hoping for? - I'm an idiot, and I should've known. - Well, the don's already got one idiot. Guess he didn't need another one. [CHUCKLING] You two think you're safe because there's just one of me. That I'm weak and that you're strong. That's not strength. That's weakness. Look at you. Bunch ofjealous idiots. Liars betraying each other. I don't need that. I get my strength from being alone. And that's why I'm gonna destroy all of you. Shut him up already, will you? [ELIAS GRUNTING] Come on, help me out. Shoot this little bastard. This is where they're holding Taylor. - What's your plan, John? - No plan. I'll just take the direct approach. I'm sorry I'm not much use on this end of things. Look. Show me how to fire one of these and I can help. I'll create a distraction, I suppose, or It's okay, Harold. You can be the getaway driver. I'll be fine. Besides, you know I don't like it when people mess with kids. Last chance, detective. Those immoral corrupt men or your innocent son. - No deal. - What are you gonna do? I'm staying right here. They're not getting past me. I'm not as alone as you think. [KNOCK ON DOOR] [GRUNTS] - Are you okay? - Yeah. Who are you? My name is John. Your mother sent me. You here to rescue me or shoot me? Tonight, rescue. Carter, those HR cops just took off. CARTER: Keep the dons in the back. Hey, you heard the lady. Get back. ZAMBRANO: Open the door, detective. I should've known. All that nonsense about bringing Elias into the fold. You're an embarrassment. - A rat. ZAMBRANO: Elias offered me a deal. When change comes, you got to adapt. You and your old man, you never learned that lesson. Drop it, Zambrano. Not till you let me out of here. Should've given Elias everything he wanted like the rest of them. - I don't look the other way. - But your partner does. Right, Fusco? In less than 30 seconds, there's a guy who's gonna come into this room he's gonna run this city. You're a survivor. Gonna choose the right side? Or you gonna die alone here with your partner? [GUNSHOTS] Not one more step, Elias. Tell your boys to put down their weapons. Or their day will end like Zambrano's over here. You're good at your job. I'm good at mine. I was hoping we could avoid further bloodshed. This is where it ends. Right here. Right now. [SIREN WAILING NEARBY] I called for backup. You gotta trust somebody, Carter. This guy doesn't own every cop. Get down. Get down. Carl Elias, you are under arrest. I'll have to check my notes for a list of charges. Murder and kidnapping are at the top. You can't stop the inevitable, detective. Change will happen whether you embrace it or not. Where's my father? You're dead. No one's ever gonna remember you even existed. You're nothing, you hear me? [CELL PHONE RINGING] - Talk to me. - Mom, it's me. Taylor. Are you okay? That guy you sent is kind of a bad ass. CARTER [OVER PHONE]: Yeah. He knows it too. - Who's the guy with the glasses? CARTER: Heh, if you find out, let me know. TAYLOR: Where are you? I'm safe. I'll see you soon. Okay. CARTER: Are you okay? Good to know you keep your promises. Told you I'd never let anything happen to your son. Thank you. OFFICER: Glasses off. OFFICER: Birth date? - August 18th, 1965. OFFICER: Social security number? - 306-00-3894. JUNIOR: It's good to have you back, Pop. It's good to be back. Let's go home, son. [CELL PHONE RINGING] Oh. Hello? Hi, Dad. MORETTl: What, is this somehow supposed to intimidate me? I just wanted to say goodbye. And that I wish I could have been there. [STATIC OVER PHONE] [GATE BUZZES]
FINCH: You are being watched. The government has a secret system. A machine that spies on you every hour of every day. I know because I built it. I designed the machine to detect acts of terror, but it sees everything. Violent crimes involving ordinary people. People like you. Crimes the government considered irrelevant. They wouldn't act, so I decided I would. But I needed a partner. Someone with the skills to intervene. Hunted by the authorities, we work in secret. You will never find us. But victim or perpetrator, if your number's up, we'll find you. [INDISTINCT CHATTERING AND STATIC] STANTON: Tell me where he is. We can do this all night. Look at me. Sooner or later you're gonna start talking to me. Let's try some non-verbal communication. [MAN YELLS THEN GROANS] [BEEPING] [DIALING] JESSICA [OVER PHONE]: It's me, Jessica. I mean I don't even know if you still check this number. Um, I need to talk. [CELL PHONE RINGS] REESE [OVER PHONE]: Jessica. I got your message. I didn't know if you'd call me back. We haven't talked in what, four years? What's wrong? Is everything okay with Peter? Yeah, he's fine. We're both fine. [WHIMPERING] I just needed a friend that I could talk to. REESE: Something's wrong. Talk to me. JESSICA: You know, you were right. In the airport, the last time I saw you you said that in the end we were all alone. - I should go. - Jess. Bye, John. I'm coming to get you. I'll be there in 24 hours. Wait for me. I'll wait. CARTER: It all comes down to a matter of trust. The foundation of any healthy relationship. I just need to know where this is headed. Trust is a two-way street, Carter. I know. I do trust you. And your friend. The two people I know the least. It's the job I'm not sure about anymore. I don't know who's got my back. Pretty sure the guy across the desk from me is dirty. Well, I'll keep my eye on him. I need to know more, John. I need to know just as much as you and your friend do about these cases we're working. Okay. Let's work this one together. [CHATTERING AND LAUGHING] This guy over here with his girl? Yeah. Only that's not his girl. That's his girl. You worthless, lying dirtbag. [GUNSHOT] [PATRONS SCREAMING] You're under arrest. I thought we were working this one together. We are. You're taking care of the shooter and I'm making sure the cheating boyfriend doesn't get hurt. Looks fine to me. FINCH [OVER FEED]: Mr. Reese, a new number's come in. Have you and Detective Carter wrapped things up on the last one? Just about. You still haven't said why you brought me in here. Sit down. Police raffle. You're the big winner. Where's the money you owe? What? We don't pay the police. We kick back to the mob. [THUD] That chapter's closed. You pay HR now. Where is my money? - I can't hear you. - All right. I'll get your money. But I gotta take you there. You go with him and get it. FINCH: Based on her remarks at the bar sounds like Detective Carter is eyeing Fusco. Isn't it time we told her that he's working with HR at our behest? - Not yet. - And after all that talk about honesty. It's safer for both of them. The less people who know about Fusco, the less danger he's in. So now you're protecting Fusco? I'm protecting an asset. - Who's the new number? - Tommy Clay. Lives in Queens. Married 10 years to wife, Joyce. They have a 9-year-old son. No criminal record, he pays his taxes goes to Church every Sunday except during football season. An ordinary guy. What's the threat? Did I mention what our number does for a living? Tommy Clay works for Grayling Armored Services. You'll be a trainee working under him. And today is training day. The crew consists of a driver, Murray Langston been working at Grayling for 20 years. Tommy is the hopper, the most dangerous position on the crew. He has to leave the truck to pick up and drop off cargo. And then there's the guard, which is you. REESE: If the machine gave us Tommy's number FINCH: Then somebody's probably planning a robbery. Seventy-three percent of car robberies happen when the hopper's away. So if they're gonna hit you, that's when it'll happen. GSM link established. The plate reader will scan any license in sight. Let us know if anyone's following the truck, casing it for a robbery. First thing, we don't always know what we're carrying. It's not on the manifest? Not the specifics, John. Your name is John, right? Sometimes the client tells us, sometimes they don't. So treat every day as if you're gonna get hit. That's a good philosophy for life. Hey, Murray, Johnny here is a philosopher. - Smart. - He must have deep thoughts. Just don't get caught napping on my watch. These guys aren't ready for any real threat, Finch. Their vests are loose, magazines stored the wrong way. We need a face to the threat. Cross-checking every plate from the reader to see if they're being followed. You almost look like you know what you're doing. Did you miss me? - More than you know. - Watch my back, hero. Found something. One plate comes up three times today. Someone's following the truck. I got guys headed this way with guns. Southeast corner. - Go, go, go. - What's happening, Mr. Reese? TOMMY: John, back here. Help! FINCH: Mr. Reese? [GROWLING] [LAUGHING] Smile, rookie! TOMMY: Hey, relax, Johnny. That's not a toy, you know? You could kill somebody with that thing. [TOMMY & MURRAY LAUGHING] All right. You got me. False alarm, Finch. It was just a prank. Oh, that's endearing. Unfortunately, the machine never issues a false alarm. The robbery will happen. And when it does, this crew's in big trouble. SNOW: How's our guy doing? I'm making progress. Softening him up a bit. It doesn't matter. You've been reassigned. You head out tonight. - China. - No can do. I need to take leave. Family emergency. You don't have any family, Reese. And I've been assured that the situation is urgent. - So find someone else. - There's no time to find someone else. We've lost control of a certain item. Securing it is the highest priority. - Do you understand? - We understand. You lost something, you need us to get it back. - What are we looking for? - Are you familiar with Stuxnet? Computer virus. Built by us to disable the Iranian nuclear program. The package you're looking for is similar. - Only this one targets the Chinese. CORWIN: That's correct. We believe someone inside the Pentagon sold a secure laptop containing some of the source code to a Chinese firm. They may be studying the code to inoculate their devices. Or they may be modifying the code to target the U.S. Nuclear infrastructure. Either way, we need the laptop returned. - Where are we going? - Ordos. A company town in the middle of China. It was built for a million people. Only the company that built it folded. It's a ghost town. No residents. So you're gonna fly into Beijing. Diplomatic cover, two weeks to gather intel, then you're going in. The laptop has to be handled with extreme caution. So no phones. No network devices of any kind. The software will exploit any open communication channel. Understood? Let's go. Reese. One more thing. After you've secured the package you're to retire Agent Stanton. You're telling me to kill my partner? We've intercepted unauthorized communications between her and this man. A go-between for Hezbollah. Large deposits into an offshore account. She's been compromised. As her partner, you should have noticed. Clean up our own mess, Reese. You know that. You get this done, you can have all the leave you need. You understand? [CELL PHONE DIALING] JESSICA [ON RECORDING]: This is Jessica. You missed me. Leave a message. REESE: What are we looking at? FINCH: I've hacked the servers and retrieved your route for today. If I know locations, I can narrow down where the robber might hit. Carter get back to you on the plate of the car following us? Not yet. [CELL PHONE RINGS] Lionel. You've been quiet. I was getting worried. It's like the Wild Wild West out there with Lynch. HR's getting short on funds since we took down Elias. So he's chasing down street money with a baseball bat. Not like I didn't have enough enemies. Keep gathering intel. We need to know their leadership. - Take down the remaining players. - At least I'm getting a cut for my efforts. - What you want to do with the money? - I care about HR, Fusco. Not the money. What you do with it is your business. - Hey, Dad. - Hey, buddy. What do you say I take you, get you some new gear? - Really? - Yeah, why not? These pictures you sent over look like the ones from our automated license plate readers. - Did you take one off my car? - Well, no. - Not your car. CARTER: I'll pretend I didn't hear that. Anyway, the plate belongs to a '95 gray Chevrolet van, registered to a 72-year-old Transit Authority Administrator. A 72-year-old is casing an armored car? That's why I dug a little deeper. Apparently, the owner's nephew Frank Lowell, was paroled two months ago. Busted back in '05 for armed robbery along with his buddy, Mick Norton, released last year. I just sent the photos to you. You might need help with these two. I got it covered. Did you catch up on your beauty sleep, sunshine? Not so much. Had a nightmare I was working with a bunch of clowns. Yeah, well, that's Tommy. He's always clowning around. Is that Tommy's wife? Talk about a ballbuster. I celebrate the anniversary of my divorce like it's New Year's Eve. This job is stressful enough. No one needs that nonsense to come home to. Marriage is a racket. You back for more, John? I see Murray here skipped his morning Pilates again. Yeah, I'm starting a new French toast regimen. - Who's your friend, Tommy? - Hey. John the newbie, Ashley. He needs to learn the ropes, and I'm the master. - What are you having? TOMMY: Something in a bag. I stick with the fried egg sandwich. Yeah, but that's because you can't read the rest of the menu. - Coffee's fine, thank you. - Okay. Whoa, that's a nice bracelet. - Who's the lucky stiff, Ash? - It's nothing. - Just a present from my grandma. - She's got good taste. I threw in extra hot sauce with your sandwich, Tommy. Whoa, Tommy. - You got a little extra hot sauce, huh? - Hey. - I'm a married man over here. MURRAY: Yeah, more like half a man. All right, ladies, time to punch in. Let's go. So, what's your story, John? Been a security guard anywhere else? - Here and there. TOMMY: Mall cop? Supermarket stiff? Something like that. All I'm saying is this ain't Walmart. - You ever been robbed before? - Once. My partner and I were servicing this ATM. These two guys came up with guns. I tried to be a hero, took two in the vest. They got away, I got a set of cracked ribs and a bump in hazard pay. But don't worry, most of the job is like this. You know, sitting around in traffic, trying not to get carsick. If the bullets don't get you, the boredom will. FINCH: I've just flagged the gray van's license plate. So the plate reader will alert us just as soon as it appears again. I've also retrieved some information from the company's database about your stops today. OneState Bank. Your cargo is their employees' tax returns. Your next stop, HelioGem Incorporated. But the shipment is just low-grade stones for industrial use. Next stop is Regan Medical Supply. Manufactures of pacemakers, among other things. Those are expensive, but hardly something you can fence on the street. Heading your way, Murray. Hang on. The internal manifest shows that you're picking up raw materials for pacemakers. Platinum. Platinum is priced at $1600 an ounce. That's approximately 25,000 a pound. There's 50 pounds. Mr. Reese, those cases are worth about $1.25 million. [TIRES SCREECHING NEARBY] That must be the target. Wow, bro, you need to relax. [TOMMY SIGHS] Come on, Murray, let's go! FINCH: I don't understand. The robbery should have taken place at the last stop. All you've got left is Dewitt Grocery. That's inconsequential compared [THUD] [GUNFIRE] Stay here. [GUNSHOT] [REESE GRUNTS] [GRUNTS] TOMMY: Come on. Let's go. FINCH: Mr. Reese? Mr. Reese? SNOW: Alpha Team is on site. They've got their orders, and we've got ours. I'll let you know when it's done. TEAM LEADER: This is where we part ways. You're going in alone. Intel says you can expect only light resistance. I got orders to confiscate any comm devices you have. - How do we signal for extract? - Use these. IR Chem Lights. The helo's gonna meet you at the LZ. You got 72 hours. We got orders to make our own way back. REESE: Bird flu must have been a cover. - The place is under quarantine. - Scaring the locals. A lot of precautions for a computer virus. Not sure we're being told the whole story here. Ours is not to reason why. Isn't that what you taught me? And I thought you weren't listening. Looks like we're a little late to the party. FINCH: Mr. Reese? FINCH: Mr. Reese? DOCTOR 1: We got that IV running? FINCH: Mr. Reese? NURSE 1: There's nothing, doctor. DOCTOR 2: We're losing him. NURSE 1: Standing by. OR 3. NURSE 2: BP, 70 over 52. NURSE 1: I'm getting no pulse. [EKG FLATLINES] - Asystole. DOCTOR 3: I'm calling it. Looks like you could use some help. Come on. Hold on to me. Bruised ribs, bullet hit the vest, broke the skin. You're lucky it's not worse. I wasn't supposed to help Tommy. I was supposed to stop him. Yeah, well, most inside jobs a guy leaves a door open, takes a cut. Guy comes out blasting like this he better have a well-thought-out exit strategy. This guy's got a family. Yeah, we're searching his house right now bringing his wife in for questioning. He's gotta be working with somebody. Well, he needs a fence. He's still gotta flip that platinum. Hmm. [CELL PHONE RINGING] Yeah. - He's right here with me. - Oh, thank God. I tracked your phone to a hospital, but I didn't know. It's okay, Harold. I'm still ticking. Well, I'm watching the feed we piggy-backed off the internal camera. Tommy had a second phone. Sent a text just before the robbery. He must have been signaling the other robbers. Well, we gotta track him, Finch. I gotta stop Tommy before he hurts anyone else. FUSCO: Oh! [LAUGHING] I used to play pick-up games here when I was a kid. You were a kid? Got into some fights. Learned how to use my fists. Need you to do something. What? Pick up something in Brooklyn. Details to follow. Failure's not an option. I know you understand what I'm saying. Where's your husband, Mrs. Clay? I don't know. - I haven't talked to Tommy all day. - Yeah, well, he's been busy. He robbed his own truck, shot two people and you still haven't heard from him. - Tommy is a good person. He's never talked about stealing anything off a truck. Is that right? Found this in a closet in your house. It's for a diamond tennis bracelet. Part of a shipment Tommy delivered two days ago. But I guess it just fell off the truck. A diamond what? Tommy didn't give you a bracelet, did he? Tommy's having an affair. So if we find his girlfriend, we'll find him. I'm way ahead of you, detective. Top off? Absolutely. - Anything yet, Finch? FINCH: Yes, as a matter of fact. One number in her call history comes up several times in the last hour. No name on the account. Could be Tommy on a burner phone. - Can you track him? FINCH: We'll see. I'm texting him an alluring photo from Ashley's archive, hoping it'll get a quick response. When he opens the message, a spyware Trojan embedded in the file will send his GPS coordinates. Good. FINCH: Mr. Reese, I got a hit on Tommy's burner phone. He last checked it from the Royce Motel. Tommy's not here. Looks like the robbers that were with him are dead. He's cutting his ties to the heist. Keeping the loot for himself. Bodies are still warm. [DOOR CLOSES] Tommy's still here. FUSCO: Hold it! So much for the bird flu. These people were gunned down. Software engineers. Not soldiers. Why kill them? [GASPS] We got a live one here. Mostly alive. [GROANING] MAN [IN MANDARIN]: [IN MANDARIN] What did he say? He said he wanted something for the pain. Action here was clean fast. BMR recon team, maybe, or hired guns. STANTON: Looks like the package. Why kill all these people and leave it behind? Maybe they copied it. Altered it and left it for us to find. Helo won't be able to pick us up till dark. We'll need a safe place to wait for extract. Safe from whom? We're the only living people in this city. After you. I should've shot you and simplified my life. Pressure getting to you, Lionel? - Why are you here? - Lynch sent me over. - Supposed to meet a guy, Clay. - HR looking for a cut? HR helped set up the heist. They handpicked the shooters. - Supposed to be picking up their cut. - You've got a problem. Tommy Clay is long gone. And he left his buddies behind. FUSCO: Ah, jeez. [FUSCO GRUMBLES] I don't come back with the platinum, HR's gonna think I took it. That makes me dead. You gotta help. You got me working with these guys. I'll find Tommy now off you go. - Off I go? What am I gonna tell HR, huh? You're a talented liar, detective, remember? That's why I picked you. - You there, Finch? FINCH: Always. If you're calling to ask where Tommy is, I don't know. Destroyed his phone as soon as he left. Get anything off the phone? Only that he uses the name "Ashley" as a password on almost everything. Ashley from the diner? - Must be love. - And it's mutual. I checked her credit card transactions. She just charged over $5000 worth of Louis Vuitton suitcases. REESE: She's running off with Tommy. I'll try to intercept her. You try to track down Tommy. I'm not sure he deserves our protection, Mr. Reese. He killed his friend in cold blood and shot me in the back. I wasn't thinking of protecting him. LYNCH: This guy killed two of our men and took off with the platinum? FUSCO: Maybe beginner's luck. Getting ambitious, detective? Working an angle? Don't believe me, go to the hotel. There's two dead bodies and empty cases. Thing about angles, Fusco you add them up, always comes out the same. The longer we stand talking, the further distance put between us and our money. Assuming you're not shining me on, there's only so many places he can fence the platinum. - We'll divvy them up. No. We do it together. That way I can keep an eye on you. ASHLEY: Such a long day. WOMAN: Oh, I know. Just wanna go home. - Talk to you later? Bye. - Call me. REESE: Hello, Ashley. [GASPS] - Get out of my car. - No. Sorry. ASHLEY: You work with Tommy. - What do you want? - You know, that is a nice bracelet. Grandma didn't give it to you, did she? And I know who did. Where is he? Where's Tommy, Ashley? I don't know. Honestly, I don't. What do you mean? I'm supposed to wait for him here. He was gonna pick me up three hours ago so either something terrible has happened to him or he's gone without me. What was your plan? I never should've believed him. He said he was gonna take me away and we were gonna go to Cabo together. At least you got your nice Louis Vuitton bags. This Tommy's turned out to be a real operator, Finch. He's putting everyone in his rear-view mirror. - You got anything? - Tommy's a creature of habit. Uses the same password for everything. His other habit is buying SymeTel burner phones. SymeTel leases their numbers in consecutive blocks. I wrote a script trying the password "Ashley" on all new numbers. And I found his new phone, along with a voicemail message he received. Listen. MAN [ON RECORDING]: Got your message. Arturo's Boxing Club. I'll be there in an hour. My guess is, this is the man Tommy is selling the platinum to. Message was received 45 minutes ago. On my way. Give Carter the address. I'll wrap Tommy up, give him to her. [CELL PHONE RINGING] - What's up? FINCH: Got a location on the armored-truck robber. Arturo's Boxing Club in Queens. John's on his way there. SNOW: Carter. FINCH: Detective, did you hear me? Hang up. The CIA's onto me. You'll have to handle this on your own. Agent Snow. And whatever your name is. Evans. What do you want? Say hi. See how you are. I'm fine. - What do you want? - We know you're talking to the FBI about Reese. - There a law against that? Well, as they've proven time and again the FBI cannot be trusted with matters of national security. SNOW [OVER PHONE]: Do not talk to Agent Donnelly. CARTER: You mean about our mutual friend? Why? You're afraid Donnelly is gonna get to him first? What exactly are you worried he's gonna tell him? Be careful, detective. We're closing the net on John. He's good at hiding but I'm good at finding people. And when I do, you're gonna wanna be on the right side of this thing. Don't talk to Donnelly. [SIGHS] Mr. Reese, I'm afraid you're on your own now. Carter just had a visit from your old colleagues in the CIA. REESE: Copy that. [DOOR CLOSES] Who is it? REESE: Hey, Tommy. Johnny. [YELLS] That's for shooting me in the back. That's for Murray. Where's the platinum? [CHUCKLES] I'm not telling you. REESE: You won't get away with this. You have no idea who you're dealing with. You think? I'm just as smart as every one of those jerks. Tommy. You were clean. You had a wife, a kid no prior record. But you threw it all away. Why? Because every day for the last 10 years I've protected other people's money, and I have nothing to show for it. - Nothing. - So the world owes you, is that it? No, it doesn't. I figured that one out. Took a while. You know what else I figured out, hauling around all that money? You get what you take. - So I'm taking mine. - That's not gonna happen. The thing about striking out on your own, Tommy is that's usually how you end up. Yeah. I think you got that just about right. [GUN COCKS] - Hi, Tommy. - Hi, babes. Help me get rid of this mope, will you? Spent decades trying to invent the perfect nutritional ration. It's still inedible. Just a matter of time before this is all obsolete. We'll still have to eat. I'm not talking about the MREs. Satellites replacing surveillance teams. Drones replacing fighter pilots. So we've outlived our usefulness? We'll be replaced by a push of a button, is that it? What do you think? I think we're still here. You ever wonder where we get our intel? I thought you didn't ask questions. Just followed orders. I never said it was easy. Sun is setting. Time to go. [CELL PHONE RINGS] - Yeah. - Our friend is in a bit of trouble. We need your help. - Who you talking to? - Uh, I'm busy right now. I can't talk. My ex. TOMMY: Now you're gonna tell me who's coming for us. Where's the platinum, Tommy? It's over there, under the ring. In that box with the gloves. So Ashley's the brains, and you're the muscle. - Is that right, Tommy? - Heh. We're partners. She convinced you it was time to make your move, didn't she? She said you deserve more from life. Ignore him, Tommy. - I'm so sorry. TOMMY: Sorry? What are you sorry for? The law of the fishes. I should have seen it coming. What are you talking about? The people I help. I never know if they're gonna be the victim or the perp, but I think this time you're both. [GUNSHOT] Now what? You think you're gonna walk out of here and live happily ever after? You're dealing with some very bad people. Shut up. Right now you have what they want, and they won't stop until they get it. First time you shot someone? First one's hard. You'd probably been thinking about it for a while. Psyched yourself up. But the second one can even be harder. [WHIMPERS] [GUNSHOT] [ASHLEY GRUNTS] LYNCH: All there? - Yeah. - Heh. What do you know? You weren't lying after all. Well, look who's here. Carter's guardian angel. Thought our paths might cross again at some point. I think it's your turn to hang off the side of a building. Hey, forget him. Let's get out of here. LYNCH: You're right. I was gonna have some fun. Heh. But I'll just shoot him. [LYNCH GRUNTS] FINCH: Mr. Reese? Everything okay? REESE: Finch, we're gonna need your trunk. FUSCO: No. I got this one. I shot him with her gun. Simple enough to make it look like Lynch botched the whole thing. You're getting good at this, Lionel. I was always good at this. That's why you picked me in the first place. Remember? STANTON: Time to wrap this up, John. Listen, Cara. There's something you need to know. [REESE GRUNTS] Sorry, John. Nothing personal. They told me you've been compromised. Said as your partner, it was my mess to clean up. [REESE LAUGHING] Something funny? I got the same orders as you. Whoever sent us here doesn't want us to retrieve the package. They want to confirm it's destroyed. They want everyone who had contact with it destroyed. And you just gave them a beacon. [JET SOARING ABOVE] PILOT: Target locked. COMMANDER: You are clear to engage. PILOT: Engaging. Did we actually accomplish anything here? We stopped Tommy from getting away with murder. That's something. He didn't stand a chance, did he? The problem with trying to be the bad guy there's always someone worse. SNOW: Hey. We got a lead on Reese. An asset in North Korea. Dissident group helped an injured CIA operative escape from a town near Ordos, China, May, 2010. EVANS: Ordos? Must be our guy. SNOW: Asset pointed us to a bank account out of Grand Cayman. Same account was accessed two days ago across the street from the Royal Manhattan hotel. Meet me there. [GRUNTS] [SNOW GRUNTING] Hello, Mark. Have a seat. We have some catching up to do.
FINCH: You are being watched. The government has a secret system. A machine that spies on you every hour of every day. I know because I built it. I designed the machine to detect acts of terror, but it sees everything. Violent crimes involving ordinary people. People like you. Crimes the government considered irrelevant. They wouldn't act, so I decided I would. But I needed a partner. Someone with the skills to intervene. Hunted by the authorities, we work in secret. You will never find us. But victim or perpetrator, if your number's up, we'll find you. REESE: When you find that one person who connects you to the world you become someone different. Someone better. When that person is taken from you Wait for me. REESE: what do you become then? BOY: Are you okay, mister? What happened to you? I think I quit my job. DRIVER [ON SPEAKER]: Next stop, New Rochelle. Morning, Finch. FINCH: You're off to an early start, Mr. Reese. Maybe I'm trying to impress the boss. You should have called first. As it stands, our docket is clear. We don't have a number? - You sound disappointed. - Oh, a little surprised. No one in New York is in danger or planning to hurt someone? If they are, they're keeping it to themselves. Anyway, I think you've earned some time off. Especially today. Or did you think I didn't know? Happy birthday. - Thanks. - You're welcome. Now go. Do whatever you do when you're not here. - You don't know what that is? - I respect your privacy, John. Obviously. [DOOR CLOSES] HAN: Cannon eight to six. Horse two to three. Ha-ha-ha. Are you sure? You tell me, Han. As I recall, John you don't make any move you're not sure of. You're not working today? My boss gave me the day off. It's my birthday. [SPEAKS IN FOREIGN LANGUAGE] - Thank you. - Ha-ha-ha. Did you get any gifts? One. HAN: A key. To what? Good question. Detective Carter. Special Agent Donnelly. How goes your hunt for our mystery man? That's why I'm here. I promised I'd keep you in the loop on our investigation. So we've been looking into a smuggling ring that was broken up a couple months back. The leader was suspected of having CIA ties. - He skipped before he could be charged. - I recall. Yeah, well, we think your guy was working for him. CSU found prints and some carbonized blood along with the body of a member of the ring in the trunk of a car. When they ran the blood, they got a DNA hit on a cold case up in New Rochelle from 2011. - What kind of cold case? - Uh, suspected homicide. Real-estate developer named Peter Arndt. - Real-estate developer? - Arndt was up to his eyeballs in debt. Lost his investors' money. We think one of them had him taken out and hired your guy to do the job. And he made some mistakes. Someone in New Rochelle has to know something. And then we'll be close. - Close to what? - Finding out who this man really is. Uh, well, um, thank you for the update. - How'd you like to assist? - Assist? - Up in New Rochelle. - Uh, I would love to, but You're the reason we're onto this guy. You should be part of taking him down. [PHONE RINGING] - I'll let you know. - Thanks. - Yeah. FINCH: Hello, detective. There's something I need to discuss. Yeah, I got something for you too. [ROCK MUSIC PLAYING INDISTINCTLY ON SPEAKERS] [PEOPLE CHATTERING] Never pegged you as the cues-and-brews type. All the more reason to come here. Once we become predictable, we become vulnerable. If you say so. WAITRESS: What can I get you? - Uh, club soda for me. Thanks. When I called, you said you had something. You know about a case up in New Rochelle? I'll take that as a yes. FBI linked your partner's DNA to a crime scene. - Agent Donnelly, no doubt. - He wants me along for the ride. - Perhaps that wouldn't be a bad thing. - How do you mean? If there was any evidence that threatened our friend I'm confident you would find it before Donnelly would. Are you suggesting I obstruct a federal investigation? What you did with that evidence would be entirely your concern. You had to talk to me about something. Oh, it was nothing important. We'll talk again when you get back. Thanks for the drink. Anything else? - I'll just take the check, please. - Okay. Here you go. Thank you. [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] [LINE RINGING] WOMAN [ON ANSWERING MACHINE]: This is Jessica. You missed me. Leave a message. - Do you need any help? - Yes, I'm, uh, looking for someone. A nurse. Jessica Arndt. I'm an old friend. She might not work here anymore. She was always talking about moving away. Um Mm I'm sorry to have to tell you this. Jessica died in a car accident. About two months ago. She said she would wait. I'm so sorry. I think I have her husband's number here if you wanted to reach out. MAN: Sorry. [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] FINCH: Has she left the apartment? FUSCO: Not yet. - What's your interest in this broad? - That's not your concern. Just keep an eye out. FUSCO: Karen Garner. She's wanted for identity theft, passing bad checks. Warrant's out. Your girl's a felon. I'm aware of her apparent troubles with the law, detective. - I'm concerned she may be in danger. - What makes you think that? "Karen Garner" is an alias that's only been around for three months. She has no credit history, only leaves to go to work. - Constantly looking over her shoulder. - She's hiding out. Or on the run, more likely. - Maybe she's trying to plan something. - Yes, perhaps she's a master criminal. But maybe she's a scared woman trying to stay a step ahead of her abuser. Yeah, right. Let me ask you. Why am I planted here instead of Wonder Boy? Mr. Reese is otherwise engaged. And you are not to contact him regarding this matter. You and I will handle this ourselves. ANNOUNCER [ON RADIO]: One out, bottom of the fifth, it's Derek Mendler up next. Mendler with a.233 batting average. Six runs batted in. Velasco with the pitch. Fastball in there for called strike and the count is nothing and one. You can see Hernandez getting up on that outside corner and Velasco nails the location at 93 miles per hour. DONNELLY: Detective Carter, welcome to New Rochelle. Glad to see you took me up on my offer. Here's what we know. Arndt was playing it fast and loose with his investors' money. He ended up losing it on bad land deals and a gambling habit. When he exhausted his credit, he was forced to take money from less reputable lenders. - Loan sharks. His bookie gave us the names of a couple guys he introduced Arndt to. - And we're checking them out. - Says he was married. - Wife deceased. What happened to her? - Car accident. Two months before Arndt went missing. Bad one. She was killed, he nearly was. Anyway, by that point, Arndt was completely under water. Shortly after he left the hospital, he went missing. CARTER: They find a body? No, but given the amount of blood spilled, it's doubtful Arndt survived. Doesn't sound like my guy's M.O. He usually covers his tracks. Another reason we think it was his first job. It was messy, violent. [PHONE BEEPING] Probably figured it would be easy then found out he had a fight on his hands. We located one of the loan sharks. - You talk to the detectives? - No, I had their files sent over. - I'd like to speak with them. - Sure. Let me know if you find anything. Will do. FINCH: Anything yet, detective? FUSCO: Yup, our girl's on her way to work. And you're right. Someone's got this girl spooked. - How long am I gonna have to tail her? - Long enough for me to identify who she's hiding from. - Hey, you see a woman come here? MAN: Yeah, she asked to use the bathroom. Detective? FUSCO: Hang on. So if I were to speculate as to the reason for your labored breathing - I lost her. - That would be it. - What do you want me to do? - Go back to your day job. I'll handle it from here. [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] [ROCK MUSIC PLAYING INDISTINCTLY ON SPEAKERS] - Hey, what can I get you? - Oh Just some information. I was here last night. I thought I saw my neighbor working. Karen Garner? - Yeah, that's right. - I was passing by. I thought I'd see if I could catch her. Normally you would, but she called out today. Another time then. I'm sure I'll see her around. Excuse me. I couldn't help overhear your conversation at the bar. - You're friends with Karen Garner? - More of an acquaintance, actually. Brad Jennings, U.S. Marshals Service. Is Karen in some kind of trouble, deputy? Karen Garner, also known as Sarah Atkins, is a wanted fugitive. - I'm trying to locate her. - Don't know how I can help. I thought I heard you say you were neighbors. Yes. You did. So maybe you could tell me where you live, Mr? - I'd prefer not to get involved. - I'm not asking you to. I'm just trying to get your address. Now if you'd prefer, we can do this down at the field office. REESE: Hello, Harold. Detective Stills, Organized Crime. This guy you're talking to is my C.I. He's a confidential informant? And money launderer for the late Don Moretti. Hey, I've got some questions for him. You were risking his cover by even approaching him. Let's go. What did he want? Just to ask me some questions. Funny. I've got a few of those for you too, Harold. Am I to assume that you were following me? I think the bigger question is are you working a case without me? I feared with this case, you had sensitivities. - I thought it best to let you sit it out. - What kind of sensitivities? Her name, or at least her aliases are Karen Garner and Sarah Atkins. She has warrants for identity theft and bad checks. But I don't think she's a potential perpetrator. I believe she's on the run from someone. - Who? - Likely someone she was close to. When I was first building the machine I kept seeing the same numbers, a week, a month, six months apart. Usually women. I thought it was a mistake. How could anyone's life be repeatedly threatened? And then I realized they were living with the person who would eventually kill them. I've been working to uncover who she is. It might help us identify the threat. Send me her address, and we'll finish discussing my sensitivities later. [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] Hello, Karen. Or do you prefer Sarah? - Who the hell are you? - Someone who wants to help you. You a cop? No. But I know you're running from someone. Who is it? Boyfriend? Ex-boyfriend? Husband? - Husband. - I'm gonna ask you one last time. - Who are you? - My name is John. And I help people out of tough situations. What do you know about my situation? I know it was bad enough for you to leave your home, your life, everything. And I know you'll have to keep running, Karen if nobody stops him. It's Sarah. My name is Sarah. What if I said you could stop running, Sarah? I'd say you don't know my husband. Mr. Reese, I traced Karen's former alias, Sarah Atkins to a Chicago apartment. Manager said she'd paid rent using checks with a different name. He's sending me one of them now. Sarah Jennings. Jennings, he's her husband. He's the marshal. - How did you know that? - That's not important. - What's important is we can help you. - We? I have a colleague who will watch over you while I take care of things. - We need you to stay here. - What is it you're gonna do? Make it so you don't have to be afraid anymore. - Everything we have on Peter Arndt. - Thanks. Did this look like a professional hit to you? It's hard to say. Don't get a lot of contract killings up this way. But this guy Arndt owed a lot of money to some dangerous people. And this? Report from a car crash Arndt and his wife were in. Single car. Husband swerved to avoid a deer. Wife was killed. Hell of a thing. Guy survives a crash, only to get taken out two months later. [PHONE RINGING] - I gotta take this. - Thank you. [CAR ALARM CHIRPS] ANSWERING MACHINE: No new messages. To listen to saved messages, press 9. WOMAN [ON MACHINE]: It's me. Jessica, I mean. I don't even know if you check this number. Um, I need to talk. Oh. You scared me. Who were you calling? Nobody. That's funny. It sounded like you were calling somebody. [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] Jessica Arndt. Pretty girl. Dead on the scene. Blunt-force head injury from the rollover. No seat belt. Do you still have her x-rays? Arndt. Here we go. In your report you identified two previous fractures a broken wrist and cracked rib. - Mm-hm. May I? Is that a spiral fracture? I suppose it is. She'd get that from having her wrist twisted hard. - As opposed to falling on it, right? - Come here. You're hurting me. One other thing. You listed her cause of death as blunt-force trauma to the head and broken neck. As I said. CARTER: Could someone suffer those injuries if the car's front and side airbags deployed? Not likely, but a body is subjected to extreme forces in a crash like that. Is it possible she had these injuries before the accident? - You're hurting my arm. - Get back here! [BOTH GRUNT] Oh, no, baby, baby, Jess. Hey. DOCTOR: Detective, I don't know what cases you're used to seeing but up here, car crashes account for most of my business. Just because something's possible doesn't mean it's probable. [PHONE RINGING] Excuse me. - Carter. DONNELLY: Detective. I'm heading to speak with Arndt's family, his mother-in-law. - See if she knew anything. - Send me the address. - I'll meet you there. - All right, will do. FINCH: I'm watching Sarah's apartment and I'm tracking the GPS on her phone. I've also discovered new information about her husband. According to the Denver public records database Jennings was sued twice for excessive use of force on the job. Both cases were dismissed. He falsified the warrants on Sarah. Trumped up the charges to enlist the entire U. S. Marshals Service into helping him. - That's why she can't stop running. Only one way to deal with guys like this. Guys who hide who they really are until they get home. What will you do, Mr. Reese? Show him what a real monster looks like. [MEN CHATTERING] Detective Uh, what was it, Stills? Have a change of heart about me questioning? [ALL GRUNTING] Your fellow deputies know why you're here? Chasing your terrified wife? If you come after her again, I will kill you. No one will be able to protect you from me. Do you understand? Finch, we're gonna wanna move Sarah to a safer location. Agreed. And then maybe you can explain the wisdom of antagonizing an entire law-enforcement agency. Mr. Reese, we have a problem. - Hi. Uh, one-way to New Haven, please. - Sure, just need photo ID. - Thank you. - Thank you. Something wrong? [MAN SPEAKING INDISTINCTLY ON PA] Stop right there. Get down on the ground. OFFICER: Karen Garner, we have a warrant for your arrest. Suspect in custody. Track 20. [PHONE RINGS] - Yes, detective? FUSCO: I just heard on the radio your girl got popped at the train station. Picked her up on a marshals BOLO. - Where is she now? - Probably still there. Cops will hold her until marshals pick her up. Thanks, detective. We have to get to the train station. We're too late. Jennings picked her up. With his cover blown, he can't take her home through official channels. He's gonna make her disappear, Finch. We need to get to her. I may have a way. Government vehicles now have mobile hotspots for Internet access, like this. - That include marshal vehicles? - Yes. So I can get into their network. The trick will be figuring out which vehicle is Jennings'. - That's him. West Side Highway. - He's taking her out of the city. - Get out. - Excuse me? Leave the laptop. Now, Harold. And get out. [TIRES SCREECHING] [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] Your daughter was so beautiful. Oh, thank you. - Were you two close? - Very. We spoke most every day. So you said you had some questions about Peter? Uh, yes, ma'am. Uh, prior to his disappearance were you aware of your son-in-law's financial difficulties? No. Peter had a good job. He was a good provider. Based on our information, he owed more than $3 million to various entities. Well, Jessica once mentioned that they were going through a rough patch but that Peter was turning things around. That was just before the accident. [PHONE RINGING] Excuse me. When you said Jessica told you they were going through a rough patch was she talking about money or her and Peter? Oh, no, Jessica and Peter had a good marriage. I mean, they had problems like any married couple, but Detective, see you a minute? [OFFICERS SPEAKING INDISTINCTLY] I just got a call that a guy in a suit assaulted four deputy marshals in their downtown office. - What? I'm heading there to follow up. Mind wrapping up with the mother? - It looks like a dead end. - Sure. [PHONE RINGS] - Carter. - What's this about an incident with four marshals? - It's under control. - Are you sure? Doesn't sound like it. - Yes, detective. So how's your New Rochelle investigation going? Donnelly hasn't found anything so far, but I think I have. Oh? Yeah, I think Arndt killed his wife and covered it up. The kind of thing you guys usually intervene in except this time your partner was too late. Still don't understand John's connection to this. Sure there isn't anything you can tell me? I'm sure you'll make sense of it, detective. You were saying something about problems between Jessica and Peter. Oh, you know, just little spats. Not even worth mentioning. Do you know if these spats ever went beyond words? I'm not sure what you mean. Did they become physical? What is it you're suggesting? Nothing. Just some routine questions. I should get going. I'm sorry for troubling you. Peter had his faults. But he loved Jessica. And she loved him. I'm sure she did, ma'am. He was so much better than her usual type. She was seeing someone before Peter? She had a fling with a soldier. Back when she was living in Tacoma. This soldier, do you remember his name? No. They weren't together very long. He was always away on duty and then she'd be alone. That wasn't the life for her. He told her the same thing, told her not to wait for him. However sometimes I now wonder if she had waited for him, maybe things could have worked out. Maybe she would be happy. And we'd talk again. Can I ask, do you have any pictures of this man? I don't. But I still have some of Jessica's things. You're welcome to look through them if you like. - Sure. [SPEAKING INDISTINCTLY] REESE: Jessica. Oh, yeah, I got engaged. His name's Peter. REESE: That's one of the things you learn over there. In the end, we're all alone. And no one's coming to save you. Be happy with Peter. You don't believe that. Tell me to wait for you and Say those words and I will. Listen, it's a party, okay? Could you stop being so - Hey! - Hey, cheers! Listen, it's a party, okay? Could you stop being REESE: In the end, we're all alone. And no one's coming to save you. Gene? Hey, Joss Carter. Good. Listen, I need a favor. Personnel file. First name John. Special Forces, stationed at Fort Lewis between June and September of '01. My eyes only. Yeah, thanks, Gene. FINCH: Mr. Reese? - What is it, Finch? What exactly is your plan once you catch up to Deputy Jennings? To get Sarah away from him. And Jennings? Jennings had his chance. He didn't take it. I think under the circumstances it might be good to bring police in on this one. You hired me to take care of these things. You don't like how I do it, hire someone else. Mr. Reese? John? CARTER: Carter. - Hello, detective. This New Rochelle business. The car accident, the cover-up, Jessica. You knew what I'd find, didn't you? - Knowing isn't always a blessing. - True. But I confess, I was calling with a more urgent problem: John. - Don't tell me you've lost him again. - No, I know where he is, I just can't reach him. Or stop him. Why are we here, Brad? I wanted us to have some time together, baby. Just you and me. I don't know how things got so out of hand with us. But I promise, I'm gonna fix it. You don't have to run anymore. You believe me, right? I do. I do believe you. I do So maybe we can take these off now? [GRUNTS] You never did know what to say, did you? [CRYING] [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] I know what you're thinking. That this is my fault. That somehow I wanted this. But have you ever considered how hard this has been for me? The trouble I've gone to for you? What's it gonna take, Sarah? I love you so much. But I can't do this anymore. No. [PHONE RINGING] [SARAH GASPING] [GUNSHOT] [BOTH GRUNTING] [SOBBING] Go. - Where? - Anywhere you want. You're free. Thank you. JENNINGS: Sarah. She's gone. It's over. [LAUGHING] - Something funny? - You've never been in love, have you? Really, truly in love. - Why? - Because then you'd know. It'll never be over. It is for you. [SIREN CHIRPING] Your friend told me I might find you up this way. I can't let you take him, John. This can't end like New Rochelle. - Do I need to look in the trunk? - You can do whatever you like. Isn't gonna change what I have to do. Let me have him, John. - If I do, he'll get away with it. - I'll see that he doesn't. It won't be up to you. That's my point. There are things you can do, detective, and things you can't. And that's where I come in. I can't allow you to just execute people. This isn't on you. It's on me. All I'm asking for is your trust. What, for you to do the right thing? That I'll do what needs to be done. MAN [ON TV]: Oh, yeah, Jess loves him. Don't you, babe? [DOOR CLOSES] MAN: Best move we ever made. WOMAN: That's right. Did Sullivan send you? Is this supposed to be some kind of, uh, intimidation? I don't have his money. You don't have anything I want. Not anymore. Who the hell are you? That's a good question. Haven't known the answer for a long time. I know who I was. I was the guy who left her behind. You know why? The real reason? Because I thought she deserved someone better than me. I thought she deserved someone who would look after her. Be there for her. I thought she deserved someone like you. So I don't know. I was hoping you could tell me. Tell you what? Who I'm supposed to be now. Now that she's gone. See when you find that one person who connects you to the world you become someone different. Someone better. When that person is taken from you what do you become then? [CHATTERING ON MONITOR] I was beginning to wonder when I'd hear from you again. I had some business to take care of out of town. I trust you now fully appreciate why I couldn't tell you about Sarah's case. I hope you now understand why you should have. Did you know? Was she one of those numbers that came up again and again? What I know, Mr. Reese is that New Rochelle happened before we started working together. Because of that, there was nothing that either one of us could have done. I forgot to include that in your birthday present. Must have slipped my mind. [PHONE RINGING] - Hello? - Detective Carter? This is Warden Gustavo Pena. - I'm calling from Torren Penitentiary. - Yes? I have been asked to inform you we have your fugitive in custody. - My fugitive? - Yes. A Marshal Jennings delivered him to us along with 10 kilos of uncut heroin found in his possession. [CHUCKLES] Uh, this marshal, just so I'm clear was he tall, dark hair, in a suit? - That's him. He said you were the original arresting officer informed me to tell you we have him in custody. - He's going to be here for a long time. - Thank you, warden. One other thing. Do you have any other Americans in your prison? - One or two. - Thanks. NURSE: I'm sorry to have to tell you this. Jessica died in a car accident. MAN: Sorry. I'm so sorry.
FINCH: You are being watched. The government has a secret system. A machine that spies on you every hour of every day. I know because I built it. I designed the machine to detect acts of terror, but it sees everything. Violent crimes involving ordinary people. People like you. Crimes the government considered irrelevant. They wouldn't act, so I decided I would. But I needed a partner. Someone with the skills to intervene. Hunted by the authorities, we work in secret. You will never find us. But victim or perpetrator, if your number's up, we'll find you. [CHATTERING OVER MONITOR] Thought you would have turned this thing off by now. We turn it over tomorrow. I'm keeping it online as long as possible. The world's been spinning for 5 billion years without your machine, Harold. I'm sure we'll be fine for one more night. [INGRAM SIGHS] Honestly? I'll be glad to be rid of the thing. This thing has already saved countless lives. You mean countless relevant lives. We had to draw a line somewhere. Everyone is relevant to someone. You would know that if you had anyone in your life you cared about. [SIGHS] I'm sorry. What you've built here is incredible. No one else will ever get a chance to tell you that. And I don't envy the decisions you've had to make. But I worry about you. Seven years you've been watching other people's lives, their plans, relationships. Maybe it's time for you to invest a little time on your own. Who says I haven't? I know you like your secrets, Harold. But if you had found someone, I would never hear the end of it. [BOTH CHUCKLING] [CELL PHONE RINGS] - Hello, Lionel. - You ready to bust some dirty cops? Simmons wants me to meet the HR brass next week. Call me next week. I'm busy with research. Research? Ha, ha, you mean following your boss again. You tailed him for weeks, couldn't find out where he lives. Yeah, well, unless you got an address, I'd say we were both striking out, huh? [CELL PHONE BEEPS] [INDISTINCT CHATTERING OVER PHONE] [CELL PHONE RINGS] Finch? We need to meet, Mr. Reese. We've just received another number. GIBBONS [OVER PHONE]: We never had this conversation. But thank you for your work on the Dubai Report. - If you hadn't flagged Carlson PECK [OVER PHONE]: Carlson? GIBBONS: He was the key to the whole thing. You saved our asses, son. PECK: Thank you, sir. FINCH: Henry Peck, 33 years old. Never married. Lives alone in Turtle Bay. Peck works as a chartered financial analyst which is a way of saying he picks stocks for a financial firm. Decker North and Associates. Are you following me? Financial analyst. It's riveting. Well, they can't all be babies and Mafia dons. So far, the most unusual thing about Henry Peck is that he has better than average security habits. I haven't been able to hack his voice- mail, his e-mail or any online accounts. Secretive, solitary. He's just like you, Finch. So how'd you get his number? Well, John, there's this machine Yeah, but you didn't get it here. No. It's much more subtle than that. And it's time I knew how the machine communicates with you. Why? REESE: Not to be blunt but wouldn't you want me to keep doing this if something happened to you? If something ever happens, I have a A contingency. Sooner or later, you're gonna need to let the cat out of the bag, Finch. Curiosity kills cats, Mr. Reese. Well, Finch, so far the biggest threat to Peck is a paper cut. Any luck getting more info on him? It's gonna take more than luck. The firm's firewall is even better than Peck's. Yeah. I've got line-of-sight on his office but I can't get any signals from his Wi-Fi or cell. FINCH [OVER PHONE]: He works in the IQZ Telecom building. Financial firms like to co-locate with Internet hubs. They can get their trades in a few picoseconds faster. If you're not getting a signal it's probably just interference from IQZ's antennas. Couldn't bluejack him, Finch, so I went old school. Wireless bug. Alicia, it's Henry Peck. Uh, again. Listen, I really need to talk to you so please give me a call and we'll find a place to meet, okay? Alicia. So who's Alicia? An ex-girlfriend? Or someone he wishes was a girlfriend? Mr. Peck. You forgot to wipe your phone. He has to wipe his phone's memory? It's common practice for traveling overseas. But that's the first I've heard of it here. - Sorry. I guess I'm just a little distracted. CARRIE: You work too hard. A bunch of us are going for drinks. REESE [OVER PHONE]: I wanna know what goes on in Peck's office. And since we can't get signals out, I'll have to charm my way in. May I help you? Yes, um John Rooney, Assets. I have a meeting with FINCH [OVER FEED]: Thomas Brewster, CFA. Tom Brewster. I'm a tad early. We just lost the feed from our bug. [DOOR CLOSES] I don't have a record of that. I'm afraid no one's allowed back without an appointment. Perhaps you should reschedule. Perhaps I should. I'm surprised, Mr. Reese. That nice young lady seemed somehow impervious to your charm. That nice young lady had a.45 pointed at me under her desk. There's a guard and a spin-lock on the main door. This isn't a finance firm. It's a SCIF. Sensitive Compartmented Information Facility. Secret government installation designed to protect classified data. Peck's no financial analyst either. He's a NOC. Some kind of spy. You thought he didn't have a life. REESE: So how do we spy on a spy? FINCH: I believe I've found a way in, Mr. Reese. The security in Peck's office blocks wireless signals but what about good old fashioned wires? And since every office runs on caffeine all we have to do is hide a camera and transceiver inside a shiny, new coffee maker wire it to send data out through the electrical system and wait for them to plug it in. PECK [OVER MONITOR]: Let me play it for you again. REESE: Got a signal, Finch. [MAN SPEAKING IN ARABIC ON COMPUTER] That's the voice of Hassan Ben Amir. I listened to him every day at Fort Meade. Hassan's a major player funding terror through the Middle East. And if he's calling New York, we need to pay attention. Now, if you'll look at these intercepts Peck's an intelligence analyst. And from the sound of it, a damn good one. That's why they're in a telecom building, they can jack into feeds. It's an NSA listening station. I guess we'd better listen. REESE: All right, Finch. Peck just got home. Time to see what our spy does at night. So far, not much. Not everyone is a social butterfly, Mr. Reese. For some of us, human interaction is difficult. Not calling it human interaction might help. [CAMERA CLICKS] Works round the clock. No sign of friends or family. Poor guy doesn't seem to have much of a life. Well, we can hardly fault him for that seeing as everyone thinks we're dead. [KNOCK ON DOOR] CHEN: Mr. Peck. Are you there? Mr. Peck? Mr. Chen? Landlord called with a complaint. Mind if we, uh, look around? PECK: What's this about? I was wondering the same thing. [CAMERA CLICKS] Your smoke detector was malfunctioning today. When Mr. Chen entered the apartment to fix it he saw these. Adderall. Felony weight. What? No. That's not mine. You'll get to explain at the station. Let's go. PECK: I'd rather have the chance to explain it right here. Well, Finch, I think Peck's life just got a little more interesting. [EARPIECE WHINES] Finch? Feedback from the bug. Something else must be on the channel. I'm trying to clean it. It's the same signal. There's another bug. Someone else is listening. Yeah, and I think I got eyes on him. I think those drugs were planted, Finch. And I think Peck's being set up. Question is, why? [PHONE RINGS] You ever buy 20 copies of the same magazine, Carter? - What? REESE [OVER PHONE]: Never mind. Do you have news? Peck made bail about an hour ago. I got everything I could on Henry Peck, which isn't much. One charge on record, and Peck had that expunged. - Does he have a history of drug abuse? - Not even close. It was a speeding ticket. - He fought to get a ticket off his record. - It was the principle of the thing. At least, that's what Peck said in this meticulous 78-page brief he sent the judge. Well, gotta love a man who doesn't know when to quit. - Thanks, Carter. - Yeah. Well, Peck's no addict. Somebody planted those drugs. I visited the bodega that's down the street from Peck's office and chatted up their wireless network downloading this video of someone breaking into his apartment. REESE: Pretty sure that's the same guy I saw last night. Whoever he is, he's well-trained. If someone's targeting Peck, we need to figure out why. And until we figure out who's after him, I'll keep an eye on Peck. Henry, we need to talk. We know about the arrest. And drug problem. There's no drug problem. JOHNSON [OVER FEED]: Under Executive Order 13526 your security clearance is suspended pending investigation. You're on administrative leave, effective immediately. - Please, sir, you can't - I need you out. As of this moment, you can't work for the NSA. The seven years I've worked here, the strongest drug I've taken is aspirin. There's something going on. I'm being set up If you're alleging some greater conspiracy, I can add that to your file. But it might make you seem unstable. Question authority and they call you crazy. Peck's being forced out. FINCH: I don't know about you, Mr. Reese, but I'd very much like to know why. PECK [OVER PHONE]: I'm sorry to keep calling, but it's really important. Please, I just need to speak to Ted Gibbons, my Hello? [DIAL TONE] REESE [OVER PHONE]: Recognize that name, Finch? Theodore Gibbons, Deputy Director of the NSA. He's going over his boss's head, way over. Whatever Peck's into, it's big. Out of the country? Really? Some guy at headquarters told me he was in a meeting. Please, now, all I did was ask questions. Any decent analyst would've Hello? [DIAL TONE] Hello? FINCH: Someone's destroying Peck's life for asking questions. About what? Finch, the security camera over Peck's door, was it working last night? Yes. Why? Because someone's in his apartment. PECK: What the hell? [PECK GASPS] Mr. Reese, is everything all? I'll take that as a no. Finch? I know a government-trained assassin when I see one. They're not just after Peck's job. Someone in Washington wants him dead. FINCH [OVER PHONE]: Then we need to protect him, Mr. Reese. He can't have gotten far. I'll use the bug to track him down. [BEEPING] GIRL [OVER PHONE]: Hello? PECK: Hi, Ted Gibbons, please. GIBBONS [OVER PHONE]: Hello? Deputy Director Gibbons, my name is Henry Peck. I work for you. GIBBONS: This is my daughter's cell phone. How did you get this number? Sorry to bother you, sir, but someone tried to kill me. GIBBONS: What? PECK: Three weeks ago, you called me. Off the record. To congratulate me on a report I submitted. That led to the high-level arrest of a man named Carlson. I never heard of Carlson. GIBBONS: His name was in your report. I didn't put it there. Someone slipped this name in. And that one name was the key to stopping a major terrorist attack. All I did was ask questions. I've been arrested. I've lost my job. They're trying to execute me, and I just want to know why. GIBBONS: Don't ever call me again. [DIAL TONE] REESE: Everything okay, Finch? I know who wants Peck dead. And I know why. I know what he's been asking questions about. They want him dead because of me. Henry Peck doesn't know it, but he's been asking about the machine. No. Ahem. Something wrong, Alicia? You mean other than being a part of an ongoing conspiracy to spy on millions of Americans? Yes, but it's all for a good cause. Day after tomorrow. Freight train out of Des Moines. Last six cars. The manifest will list the contents as decommissioned computer parts. What about things on your end? The facility is designed to the specifications you gave us. And it's discreet. Where we're putting it, no one's going to go looking. And the other problem? Dissemination. We have a protocol in place. If the machine identifies a suspect the name will find its way to the right people. With no way to trace the intel back to the source. There can't be. Otherwise we'll all wind up someplace where no one's going to go looking. Eight people in the world know it exists. We need to keep it that way. Seven, Nathan. Seven people. Unless you told someone. [CHUCKLES] Come on, Alicia, you know I'm terrible at math. The people on your end. You sure about them? Making sure no one ever finds out about the machine is our problem. We'll take care of it. We've known each other a long time, Alicia. Something's got you rattled. I'm fine, Nathan. I'll be happier when this thing is settled and I can go back to my day job. And what's that, exactly? Classified. You can buy me that drink now. - Yeah, Carter? - One of Peck's neighbors called 911. Said they saw two men fighting in his apartment. Everything okay? FINCH: The situation has been resolved. We're fine now, detective. Thank you. Doesn't sound resolved to me. So Peck asks about your machine and now someone's trying to kill him. Something you want to tell me? As with all computer systems, the big problem is human error. Strictly speaking, the machine is not legal. I always knew that certain measures would be taken to protect it but But, as I found out myself the people I've entrusted it to are more ruthless than I anticipated. [CELL PHONE RINGS] - Hello? CORWIN [OVER PHONE]: Is this Peck? Alicia Corwin? REESE: Corwin. That's the Alicia he's trying to meet? She worked for the National Security Council. Ms. Corwin? Are you there? You've been looking for me? Can we meet? No. Two months ago a report I wrote changed when it went through your office. Your office has been shut down for more than a year. Please. I just want to know what's going on. I just want my life back. Sibilance. Okay. - Is there anything else you can tell me? - Run. We need to stop him, Mr. Reese. From learning more about the machine, about sibilance, whatever that is. We need to treat this like an outbreak. Peck is infected, with an idea, but infected all the same. Anybody he talks to can wind up dead. And everything that Peck uncovers makes it that much more impossible for us to save his life. - So let's just get him to a safe house. - It's not that simple. He'll want to know who we are. Knowing that would put him closer to finding the machine. [EARPIECE WHINES] Whatever we do to save Peck, it must be without him knowing we exist. [ECHOING OVER PHONE] Mr. Reese, are you even listening? Well, now we have a bigger problem. Peck found the bug and he just gave us the slip. Peck's cashed out his bank accounts. His credit cards are popping up at cheap hotels and liquor stores all over the city. He's probably handing them out to the homeless. The NSA certainly taught him how to scatter a digital footprint. You getting anything off Peck's phone? Unfortunately, they taught him how to brick a cell phone as well. Flash memory is unrecoverable. What can you tell us about the people hunting him? Elite squad, probably a three-man team. The guy I fought had a handgun chambered for rifle ammunition so it shreds Kevlar. Only one unit I know gave those as standard issue. The Intelligence Support Activity. An obscure unit that does black ops so dark, technically they don't exist. Guess we better find Peck first. They'll hunt him like I would. Start with his needs: Sleep, a place to hide and a way to get information. Cash-only hotels with Internet access. There's been a complication. Target's still in play. SPECIAL COUNSEL: That's not a complication. - That's failure. FOX [OVER PHONE]: He has assistance. SPECIAL COUNSEL: Who? - Unknown. One of ours, I think, or at least he used to be. We've lost the element of surprise and the ability to make it look like an accident. - What's the mandate? - Take the gloves off. Get it done. FINCH: I've got a hit, Mr. Reese. A youth hostel in Hell's Kitchen. I can't be certain he's still there, but Peck definitely used their computer. He wasn't able to dig up anything on sibilance. But he had good luck finding a pin out to hack the card reader at his office. I believe Mr. Peck is planning to break into the NSA. [BEEPS] He's in. So am I. FINCH: I'd very much appreciate it if you'd stop Peck from getting any more information that'll get him killed. Correct me if I'm wrong, but if I take those reports, he's gonna know I exist. This is a challenging situation, but you have to avoid direct contact Peck! [PECK GRUNTS] FINCH: You're right, Mr. Reese, it's a three-man team. Two and a half. Hey! Hey! [SIREN WAILS] - I broke into that building, okay? Arrest me. - What the hell's the matter with you? Hey, don't lose those. That's evidence. You're gonna want that. OFFICER: Relax, pal. Soon as I read you your rights, you can tell us everything. [CAR DOOR CLOSES] Finch? You're not gonna like this. Everything's in place. Point to point transit will take 10 days. Hope nothing goes wrong in the rest of the world in 10 days. Wait. Do we have a contingency? A contingency? Alicia seemed nervous. What do we do if the government decides to abuse this thing? - They're your contacts, Nathan. - They're just people. The power that this thing represents I mean, who would you trust it with? - Besides you? No one. Which is why the machine has been coded in such a way that it cannot be abused. It cannot even be accessed. It upgrades itself, maintains itself, patches itself. After tonight, no one can alter it. Ever. I used to be a software engineer, Harold. Remember, back before I became your corporate beard? Any system can be compromised given enough time. We need an off switch. A backdoor. And this is our last chance to build one. You are a talented engineer, Nathan. So you should remember any exploit is a total exploit. The tiniest crack becomes a flood. If we built a backdoor into this machine and someone else finds out about it that would be very bad. We need to trust the machine, exactly as we've built it. And then let it go. [BEEPS] [BEEPING] OFFICER 1 [OVER RADIO]: Car 3 to Central, suspect in custody. Subject's name is Peck, Henry L. OFFICER 2 [OVER RADIO]: We got a BOLO on that guy. Take him to Detective Carter at the Eighth. Please, just listen. They've taken my job, ruined my life. Now I know why. This is the proof. These are six reports I wrote for the NSA. And six covert actions based on those reports. In each case, a single name gets added to what I wrote. And that name turns out to be the key to stopping a major terrorist attack. Six for six. The only way to be that accurate is with illegal surveillance on a massive scale. Then there's this. Sibilance is an internal audit of the NSA intranet. It's totally routine until they find signals hidden just beyond the Shannon limit. It should just be static, but there was data. Someone is sneaking just as much data out as the NSA is taking in. To scan through all that, you'd need an organization 10 times our size. It's more than any human [WHISPERS] Oh, my God, they actually built it. [IN NORMAL VOICE] After 9/11, the government wanted a computer system a machine, that could watch everyone and everything. Catch terrorists before they strike. They tried with Trailblazer, TIA, Stellar Wind. They all failed. But if I'm right then somebody really built the damn thing. And it's watching us right now. Okay. You want a soda or something? - You just questioned my suspect? - Questioned your suspect? The guy's been talking a blue streak all by himself. He should be wearing a tinfoil hat. Gets arrested yesterday for drugs, tonight, he throws a bottle at a cop. This guy's out of his mind. REESE: We need to get you out of here, Henry. Who are you? I suppose we can count our blessings Detective Fusco isn't the inquisitive type. But Peck's in more danger than ever. Seriously, who the hell are you? All Henry Peck did was ask questions. He deserves a normal life. If we have any hope of giving it to him we have to destroy that evidence and stop him from getting any more. Yes, my name is Henry Peck. - I'm an analyst - Who did you call? PECK: The Office of Special Counsel, the agency that protects whistleblowers. Oh, I really wish you hadn't let him do that, Mr. Reese. The people who know about the machine work for the Office of Special Counsel. What are you doing? Our own government is spying on us, and they wanna kill me to cover it up. I have to tell someone. The people you called aren't who you think they are. There's no one to tell. No one is safe. SPECIAL COUNSEL: He just called us. I'm sending their last known coordinates. FOX [OVER PHONE]: That's all I need. Get down! [BOTH GRUNTING] Do you know why you were ordered to kill him? I never asked. [FOX GROANS] Okay, Peck, let's get you out of [SIREN WAILING NEARBY] This isn't over, Finch. The man wrote 78 pages to fight a speeding ticket. I know. He's not gonna give up. And neither are the people who know about the machine. So, what the hell are we gonna do? A good friend once showed me that even with an intractable problem one can still find a way to do the right thing. [SIGHS] SPECIAL COUNSEL [OVER PHONE]: Your predecessors failed and now Peck's reaching out to the press. He's meeting a reporter tomorrow. I want you to silence them both. OPERATIVE [OVER PHONE]: We'll be there. - You're not the reporter. - No. No, I'm not. Oh, she's quite safe. Right now, my associate is dealing with the assassins that were sent to kill you both. The answer to your question is yes. It exists. And it's watching us right now. I'm telling you this because you remind me a little of myself. And I know that if I were you, I would keep asking until I knew the truth. So now you do. Now stop asking the question. Where is it? How does it work? The servers alone would be I know how you feel. Your need to understand. But believe me, Mr. Peck this is a mystery you do not want to solve. Knowing the answer has cost me something I value more than my own life. Clean passport, plane tickets a bank card to a well-funded account in your new name. Please, Mr. Peck, for your own sake and, quite frankly, for mine go and live your life. Find some secrets of your own. And if you really need a mystery I recommend the human heart. How do you know all this? Because I built it. TERNEY: Carter. - Yeah. That guy, Peck, who pulled the disappearing act? We just pulled his prints off a burned-out cab with a John Doe next to it. What about Peck? Any idea where he is now? He's in the wind. A bunch of paper burned up in that cab. All we could make out was this. [PHONE DIALING] [CELL PHONE RINGS] Hey, this HR deal's a lock. We've got three days. We gonna do this or not? We'll be ready. I'll call you as soon as I'm done here. Yeah, right. Like you'll ever be done spying on Mr. Glasses. Next time I see you, I just might have his address. VENDOR: John? Your order's ready. - You're here every day? - Mm-hm. Hello, Finch. Can I help you? Sorry to bother you. Detective Stills. Someone reported a disturbance at this address. Really? I'm the only one here. Probably just an old lady who saw a shadow or a kid playing a joke. We just have to check everything out. Do you want help with these? Uh, sure. Thanks. There must be about 50 copies here. You a collector? Uh, kind of. They send me extras when it's one of mine. You draw the covers. Yeah, a bit old fashioned, I know. Everything's going digital. Print is dying. But, uh, every time I think I'll never work again another magazine or newspaper calls, so Guess I have a guardian angel. Who's this? Um, that's, uh, Harold. My fianc. Looks like a nice guy. Yeah. He's a very nice guy. I never really thought that I'd meet anyone who got me. Spending all your time alone, drawing isn't exactly the best way to find someone, heh. But Harold found me. I was painting in the park one day. And there was this man eating an ice cream cone in January. And he smiled at me, and he asked me if I wanted one. Does he live here with you? No, he doesn't. Um, he used to. I lost him two years ago. There was an accident. I'm sorry. REESE: Good location. Clear line of sight but enough obstructions and distance to avoid being seen. I built an app that alerts me if I ever get within 100 meters of her. I've never regretted building the machine. But I didn't fully realize the personal cost. I'm good with computers. People? Well, people other than Grace have always been a mystery to me. I failed to recognize the lengths to which they would go to protect the machine. To control it. By the time I realized it, it was too late. For me. But not for her. You see, Mr. Reese if knowing about the machine is like a virus that makes me patient zero. Simply being near me was putting her life in danger. I'm sorry. I was lucky. I had four years of happiness. Some people only get four days. Please, Mr. Peck, for your own sake and, quite frankly, for mine go live your life. Find some secrets of your own. And if you really need a mystery I recommend the human heart. PECK: How do you know all this? FINCH: Because I built it.
FINCH: You are being watched. The government has a secret system. A machine that spies on you every hour of every day. I know because I built it. I designed the machine to detect acts of terror, but it sees everything. Violent crimes involving ordinary people. People like you. Crimes the government considered irrelevant. They wouldn't act, so I decided I would. But I needed a partner. Someone with the skills to intervene. Hunted by the authorities, we work in secret. You will never find us. But victim or perpetrator, if your number's up, we'll find you. [CHATTERING OVER MONITOR] [CELL PHONE RINGING] [CARTER SIGHS] Let me guess, I have to cancel my dinner plans. Our mutual friend needs help, detective. He's downtown. I'll be there as soon as I get finished here. I hate to be rude, but it's an emergency. We need you now. [DIAL TONE] DONNELLY: Carter. I need you to come with me now. - Uh, but I have this thing - Not anymore you haven't. It's an article of faith for me that all criminals however clever, eventually trip themselves up. You want to tell me what this is about? Man in the suit? We got him. Morning, Finch. Mr. Reese. What have you been doing? - Corrupting Detective Fusco. - Does he really need help in that regard? I'm encouraging him to show ambition to climb the HR ladder. Afraid it'll have to wait. We got a new number. - Caroline Turing. - Oh. - She's a lot prettier than Fusco. - And much more discreet. - Her online profile is carefully managed. - Think she's got something to hide? Many things, I would expect. She's a psychologist. From what I can determine, she specializes in the high-end clients the sort who insist on discretion. While I dig deeper, you get close. See if you can work out where the threat is coming from. REESE: She could be the threat, Finch. FINCH: I'm sure you'll work that out too. BARISTA: Next. - Sorry, um Double-shot macchiato. [CELL PHONE RINGS] Yes, Lionel. I'm about to meet a few big hitters from HR. I'm thrilled for you. FUSCO: I thought you'd want to be there. - We can take these bastards down. REESE: In good time. It's my balls in a vise, all right? Carter keeps giving me the stink eye. We need to wrap this up. And we will, Lionel. When I say so. Meantime, I want you to look into someone else. Caroline Turing. Sending you a photograph. Get back to me when you got something. [CELL PHONE BEEPS] TURING [OVER FEED]: You think I'm not understanding you? FRIEDRICKSON [OVER FEED]: Yeah, I do. Giving me signals. Putting words in my mouth. And I'm concerned. About things I've confided in you. I thought we agreed, no notes. We did. Sorry. Old habits. The things I've told you, if anyone else heard that could be a big problem, understand? For whom, Hans? You or me? Both of us. You understand me now? Councilman Larsson, Detective Romano, Captain Lewis. This is Detective Fusco. ROMANO: Hmm. - We hear you got dirty fingers, Fusco. LEWIS: Fingers? I heard he's got his snout buried in the damn trough. LARSSON: City council and the district attorney no longer tolerate any malfeasance by N.Y.P.D. Officers. What do you gotta say for yourself? Uh, you know, I don't know. Uh [LAUGHING] Enough social niceties. - What's on the docket? - Yeah, we got a contract. Rich guy with a problem he needs to go away. Method is up to you. Speed is the only stipulation. You gonna pick the shooter, Simmons? My guys are all solid. Fusco will run interference with Homicide, in case there's questions. If I look after somebody, I need to know their names. No. You don't. My only question is do we trust the rich guy? I trust his money. It's already in escrow. Here's a down payment for expenses. TURING [OVER FEED]: I'm sorry but in order to help you, I have to have your trust. Clearly I don't. I'm referring you to another therapist. You're firing me? No, I'm admitting failure. I'm firing myself. You have issues to resolve and you need to be able to speak freely. Finch, are you listening to this? FINCH [OVER FEED]: It seems some of Ms. Turing's patients are a little clingy. I've been open. I laid myself bare to you. I'm helping you. Believe me. [CELL PHONE RINGS] REESE [OVER PHONE]: What now? - Yeah, nice to talk to you too. - I met them, the HR inner council. REESE: So, what was it about? - Handshakes and single malts? FUSCO: No, this is serious. HR's in the murder-for-hire business. You know the targets? Yeah, I know the target. You do too. It's that lady shrink you asked me to look into. Forty-eight hours and she's dead. FINCH [OVER FEED]: Thermostat has a motion-detector camera. It'll capture the face of any patient coming or going from Ms. Turing's office. We should be able to identify the more prominent ones in no time. I'm guessing one of them hired HR to keep her quiet. [ELEVATOR BELL DINGS] Question is, which one? Until we figure that out I'm gonna stay as close to Turing as possible. I agree. Time for you to work through some of your issues, Mr. Reese. Issues? Tell me, what is it you do, Mr? Rooney. I'm, uh, a consultant. It's complicated. Not really important. TURING [OVER FEED]: I'm not so sure. I find business is often personal with my patients. - I was told I could count on your discretion. - My clients are private people. I respect that. And I will protect it at all cost. Lady after my own heart. So, what brings you to seek therapy? You mind closing the blinds? If it makes you more comfortable. Would you care for something to drink? Water would be fine. Thank you. FINCH: Looks like her schedule but with only her clients' initials. The lady is careful. [CELL PHONE RINGS] Detective. Any luck with Councilman Larsson's finances? He signed a deposit at his bank this week for $500,000. Nice chunk of change for a public employee. We know where it came from? An escrow account held at that institution, made a disbursement in the same amount. Send the tracking number, I'll take it from here. What is the fine councilman mixed up in? Murder for hire, detective. HR's branching out. We'll be in touch. Tell me, what do you see as the goal? Uh, the goal? The purpose for your visit. You seem a little agitated right now. Why would you say that? TURING: Your body language. Closing the blinds. You don't like windows, do you? - What is it you're afraid of? - That's funny. I was gonna ask you the same thing. Me? You have a panic button installed under your desk. Is that recent? Someone you're afraid of? You're highly observant. Hypervigilant. Aware of your surroundings. You're saying I'm paranoid. Is that what you think? I was thinking something else. Former military? Tread carefully, Mr. Reese. Is it that obvious? A little. The way you walk into a room. The way you sit facing the door. You see the world differently than most, don't you? A threat around every corner. Tell me, do you feel the need to protect people? To save them? FINCH [OVER FEED]: Choose your words wisely. We can't have anyone discovering what it is we do. [CAMERA SHUTTER CLICKING] Mr. Reese, I managed to get a read on that escrow account that's funding HR. Question is, who hired them? FINCH: Impossible to determine. The money comes from dozens of points of payment, multiple countries. The balance in the account is $5 million. REESE: That's a hell of a payday. Someone with tremendous means wants Caroline Turing gone. I've enlisted the aid of an old friend to help us figure out who. ZOE: She's cute. - Hello, Zoe. - Good to hear you're getting some help. But I don't think there's a woman out there alive that could fix you, John. Caroline Turing. You familiar? No, but that's obviously by design. Next to bartenders, men usually like to spill it to female shrinks. It's easier than talking to their wives. These men value discretion. - You know any of her patients? ZOE: A few. Impressive lot. I've narrowed it down to three players. Hans Friedrickson, the lawyer that threatened her. Supposedly he's away on business right now. Or left town to give himself an alibi. Patient number two: Banker named Terrance Baxter. Rumor is he's being investigated for a Ponzi scheme. And there's David Sarkesian. He's a prominent city official. Whispers are he's sleeping with his intern. Looks like our shrink is sitting on a powder keg of secrets. Which could be lucrative, if you play your cards right. Or deadly, if you don't. SIMMONS: Target works downtown. Leaves the office late most nights. Same path every night. She walks eight blocks to the Fulton Street subway station. That one block stretch on Pearl Street? That's the dark zone. No storefronts, low foot traffic, no cameras. Once she turns that corner, she steps off the grid. That's your window. Robbery gone bad. Purse to be found in a Dumpster in Alphabet City. Weapon never to be recovered in the East River. - Piece of cake. - We're on. Heading your way. Hello, doc. [TURING SIGHS] John, I, uh What are you doing here? It's probably not a good night for a walk. Look, John, this is not okay. Were you following me? How about I call you a cab? This is what I was getting at in today's session. You think there's something lurking around every corner but there isn't, John. There's no boogeyman here. You're not overseas anymore. And this is the way I go home every night. My subway stop is right up there. It's okay. I'm safe. Go home. Try to get some sleep. Okay. TURING: I'll see you tomorrow, okay? [GUN COCKS] [GASPS] Come on, let's go. MAN [OVER RADIO]: Shots fired, Fulton Street and Pearl. Multiple units responding. Who were those men? - Why did they shoot at you? - Because I was standing in front of you. They want to kill me? REESE: Don't. TURING: Why? The men who are after us are cops. No way to tell if he's working with them or not. Come on. SIMMONS [OVER PHONE]: It's me. Did you take care of the shrink? JABLONSKI [OVER PHONE]: Not yet. Telling me five of you can't handle one woman? Some guy came out of nowhere, fast. He shot Mandel in both legs. Let me guess. Tall guy in a suit. Did the woman get a good look at any of you? Yeah. That's bad news for you, my friend. You don't clean this up, we're not gonna take the risk you'll turn state's. You kill them, or I'll kill you. - What are we doing here? - We need a place to hide, to regroup. Hello. A room, please. The only room we have available is the honeymoon suite at $3000 per night. REESE: We'll take it. REESE: Too many cops in the neighborhood. We'll need to lay low until morning. Working on an escape route for you. I appreciate it. In a bit of a tough spot here. Great. Now you're hearing voices. Not exactly. He's a friend. [ELEVATOR DINGS] A very resourceful friend. [CELL PHONE RINGS] [CARTER SIGHS] Let me guess, I have to cancel my dinner plans. Our mutual friend needs help, detective. He's downtown. I'll be there as soon as I get finished here. I hate to be rude, but it's an emergency. We need you now. [DIAL TONE] DONNELLY: Carter. I need you to come with me now. - Uh, but I have this thing - Not anymore you haven't. I I don't understand. Who would want to kill me? I was hoping you could tell me. Someone with the means to hire a team to get rid of you. - Sound like any of your patients? - Yeah, all of them. The only way to call off the dogs is to find out who hired them. [SIGHS] TURING: I can't think. Can't move. This must be what panic feels like. Here. Have some chocolate. Will these help to produce an adrenaline response? No, but they taste good. Who the hell are you? Let's just say we both help people cope with problems. I'm just a little bit more, uh hands-on. I promise, I will tell you when it's time to panic. This is Detective Sagan, N.Y.P.D. Wanna give her a demonstration of what you do? This footage is from 90 minutes ago. We have reports of shots fired. Then he fled with this young woman. We think she's a hostage. We lost him after that. But we're confident they're still in this six-block radius. The most heavily surveilled six blocks in the world. This is now a federal manhunt. Surprised to see you here, Fusco. I like to be where the action is. Are you okay? Better. [SIREN WAILING NEARBY] Need some help, Finch. HR just found us somehow. Two, three minutes before they find our room. So going down probably isn't an option. I'll look into it. I think I found something. Previous occupant of the penthouse recently went to jail for tax evasion but the IRS hasn't yet seized everything. The point, Harold? I know you're good at stealing cars, how about helicopters? It's been a while since I've flown. Might be a little rusty. On the bright side, if you don't remember, it'll be a short fall. [CHATTERING] Wait, wait. Go back. That's them. Notify our men to converge on that hotel. Uh, all due respect, detective, N.Y.P.D. Is gonna sit this one out. - Send in our teams. - Yes, sir. Stairs. Now. You saving me, is this making up for someone you didn't save? I thought we were done with therapy. Talking about your issues helps distract me. Who said I had issues? - I'll take that as a yes. - Wait. [HELICOPTER WHIRRING NEARBY] Sounds like a helicopter. Isn't that what we want? Yeah, but I haven't stolen it yet. [INDISTINCT CHATTERING OVER RADIO] Follow me. Change of plans. You said you'd tell me when to panic. I'm guessing now's the moment. MAN [OVER PHONE]: Relaying the hotel security system feed to you in three, two, one. Sweep every floor. I want him alive. TURING: Who was that? FBI. - They wanna kill me too? - Actually, they're after me. - Finch, I need a little help here. - Working on it. [TURING PANTING] Mr. Reese, make your way to the freight elevator at the northwest corner of the building. Take it down to parking sub-level four. There's an old service tunnel. It leads out to the old water treatment plant at the seaport. I'll pick you up there. [CELL PHONE BEEPS] Let's go. [CELL PHONE BEEPS] Let's go. My men are closing in, but there's a complication. - The feds are here. - They're not looking for Turing. They want the shooter. We're gonna take them both out. How, with the feds on top of us? SIMMONS: We got a guy inside who's gonna feed us their location take care of the cameras. The feds think he's holding Turing hostage. That he's a Special Forces wacko. He'd do anything to resist capture. You bring the gear? LULICK: Enough to blow a hole to China. We'll corner them, blow the whole floor. Make it look like he did it. Let's go make a mess. FINCH [OVER PHONE]: Ms. Morgan. Any luck finding the person who hired HR to kill Turing? Not yet, but I tracked down Hans Friedrickson's assistant. Turns out he actually was away on a business trip. FINCH: Then who was the man threatening Turing? [SIREN WAILING NEARBY] About to find out. We need to talk. Sure, we can talk. I traced your cell phone. And here's the thing, Hans. Your cell phone is registered to a lowlife named Jimmy White. Short-con operator, did a couple stints in minimum-security. But I gotta say, impersonating a prosecutor? [CHUCKLES] That's probably not your best play. It was just a gig. They forced me to pretend I was this Hans guy, threaten some shrink. Who forced you? I don't know. I swear I don't know. It was all over e-mail. They were blackmailing me. They knew everything. [DEVICE BEEPING] [ELEVATOR BELL DINGS] REESE: We made it to the elevator, Finch. FINCH [OVER FEED]: Glad to hear it. I'll contact you when I'm in position. Ms. Morgan are we any closer to identifying who hired HR? No, something seems really off. Someone paid Hans to become Turing's patient. I'm going back to her office to see if I can dig up anything else. And Harold? Be careful. I'd hate for anything to happen to our mutual friend. SIMMONS [OVER PHONE]: Got word they're in the freight elevator. You can cut them off at 25. [CELL PHONE BEEPS] - What are we doing? - They hit the button on the floor below us. [ELEVATOR BELL RINGING] The guys trying to kill you or the guys trying to kill me? Open the fire-safety panel. Try shorting the wires till the override light comes on. Then we can bypass the floor below. SIMMONS [OVER PHONE]: They stopped the elevator at 26. Set your charges in the stairwell and get rid of them. Move. I think I owe you an apology. How do you figure? I diagnosed you as paranoid. Just because you're paranoid doesn't mean they're not trying to kill you. TURING [THROUGH WALL]: I can't find the right wire. It's not working. REESE [THROUGH WALL]: Keep trying. Got him. Tell the teams to stage off 27. Enter 26 through Stairwell B. MAN: Yes, sir. SIMMONS [OVER PHONE]: FBI is closing in. Where are we at, guys? - We are good to go, boss. - All right, you move in on my mark. [CELL PHONE BEEPS] We're out of time. Just stay behind me and I'll hold them off as long as I can. Do it. DONNELLY: Get ready to move. He's armed, but I want him taken alive if possible. Understood? I'll give you the signal. - On your count, Simmons. - Five. In a bit of a bind, Harold. Four. - Hope you've got tricks up your sleeve. - One or two. SIMMONS: Three. Two. [HIGH-PITCH TONE] Move in, team. Now. Go. - Did you hear me? - Simmons. [HIGH-PITCH FEEDBACK OVER PHONES] Team, move in. Team, move now. You're gonna lose them. [CHATTERING] What the hell's going on? - Uh, sir? Comms are down. - Which comms? - Uh, all of them. - Line's dead. I got it. [ELEVATOR BELL DINGS] What's happening? TECH: Uh, every tower south of Canal Street went out. DHS had a failsafe in place to take control of the cell infrastructure in case of an emergency. Someone hacked it. The towers are white-listed. Only authorized numbers can use them. In this case, only one number. Whose number? FINCH [OVER PHONE]: I trust you can still hear me, Mr. Reese. I have to say, Harold we've been working together for some time now, but you continue to surprise me. FINCH: Likewise, Mr. Reese. You should have something of a competitive advantage now. Just get the team on a hard line now, damn it. Wait, what's this guy doing? We're going down there now. Let's move. [CELL PHONE RINGS] Thanks for the help, Carter. Someone's feeding HR intel about your whereabouts. I'm gonna take care of it though. FUSCO: There are no unis on Pearl Street. You can smuggle them out there. - What the hell, Carter? - Hang up and hand it to me. - Come on. Come out of there. - What's this about? - Some type of misunderstanding? - No, I understand things perfectly. You're working for HR. Who were you talking to? What do you think you're doing? HR. You're guiding them. You're their eyes and ears. Listen, Carter. I'm working undercover in HR, not for them. The feds? IAB? Show me some paperwork, Fusco. It's nothing like that. Nothing official. Listen, I made some mistakes. Some big ones. But things are different now. I'm helping people. - You gotta trust me. - I want answers. Now. - The guy in the suit. - What did you say? The guy in the suit. The one you've been chasing. I know this sounds crazy, but they seem to know when people are in trouble. And they help them. Him and another guy, and me too, sometimes. Mm-hm, this other guy. Describe him. He's like a professor. He's got, uh, glasses and a high-dollar vocabulary. That's who I was talking to when you came in. [CELL PHONE RINGING] You got some explaining to do, Finch. Hello, detectives. I understand you'll have questions, but we're short of time. I'm heading downtown to help our friend. I suggest you do the same. John will almost certainly need your help. You son of a bitch. If you're not the mole, then who is? I know exactly who the mole is. I know everyone who's in HR. When we get done with this, we're gonna take them all down. [ELEVATOR DINGS] What now? Old service tunnel down here we can take outside the perimeter. My friend's meeting us there. Hold on a second. FINCH [OVER PHONE]: Mr. Reese, I'm in position. This comes out to a water-treatment plant by the river. Keep going till you find my friend. MAN [NEARBY]: Split up. - I'll hold them off. Go. John, thank you. Go. Turing's on her way to you. I think I'm gonna be a little held up. I'll get Ms. Turing to safety and I'll come back for you. Harold Finch, I presume. You're a hard man to find, Harold. - I don't know who you - Save it. We met before, remember? Nathan introduced you as his IT guy. He always had a talent for understatement. What do you want from me, Alicia? Nothing complicated. You created God and now you're gonna help me shut it down. [GRUNTS] MAN: Back him up! Back him up! - Looks like you're just about out of time. - Just about. [TIRES SCREECHING] Get in! SIMMONS: Get to the car! [TIRES SCREECHING] Before Nathan died, before your machine killed him I could tell something was eating away at him. The ethics of what he was building. I thought he was fighting with himself over it, but he was fighting with you. He knew, didn't he? The hubris of creating something as powerful as the machine. I can feel it right now. Watching us. Listening to us. There's no hiding from it. [SOBBING] I'm so tired of running. I've made some mistakes. But building the machine is not one of them. You haven't been running from the machine, Alicia. And the machine didn't kill Nathan. You've been running from people. From people that you and I both trusted. You're right. And you're lucky I found you first. [SIREN WAILING] Why didn't you tell us we were both working with you? - To protect you. FUSCO: Protect us? You almost got me killed. You can't trust us, how can we trust you? [TIRES SCREECHING] Trust is complicated, Lionel. For example, I'm sitting in a police car with one cop who tried to murder me, and another who spent six months trying to lock me up. So you'll forgive me if I take things one step at a time. - Slow down, Carter. - Slow down? They know they're going down for life. They'll kill anybody in their way. I got this. Trust me. Well, we should all grab a drink together sometime. My treat. [COMPUTER BEEPS] Do you have any idea what the wrong person would do to you if they knew you had access? What kind of chaos that could create? Define "wrong person." You were willing to pay corrupt officers to target an innocent woman to draw me out. What are you talking about? The machine. You know how it works. The irrelevant list. It would send Turing's name if you put her in danger. Irrelevant list? I didn't need to lure you out. I've been following you for weeks. I thought she'd never shut up. [BEEPING] So nice to finally meet you, Harold. You can call me Root. [CELL PHONE RINGS] ZOE: You were set up, John. Turing isn't who we think she is. - What do you mean? ZOE: Her office, her life, it's all a mirage. I saw the escrow transfer. She was the one who paid HR. She put the hit on herself. Turing must have learned how you operate. That you'd show up if her life was in danger. She was trying to lure you out into the open. She wasn't looking for me. She was looking for him. You hired HR yourself? You were willing to risk your own life to find me? I did this corporate training thing once. I was blackmailing the CEO, long story but they did this exercise called the trust fall. Where you close your eyes and fall and wait for someone to catch you. I knew you boys wouldn't let me down. Come on, Harold. We've got so much to talk about. [INAUDIBLE DIALOGUE] He's in danger now, because he was working for you. So you're gonna help me get him back. [PAY PHONE RINGING]
_ There we go. Now, can you see me? Excellent. Next question. Who am I? _ You knew what we were building here. This thing looks for plotters, schemers. We built it to stop terrorists before they could act. If congress knew about this machine you're building, you would go to jail. I don't suppose they'd let us be cell-mates. Knowledge is not my problem. Doing something with that knowledge, that's where you'd come in. Sooner or later, both of us will probably wind up dead. If something ever happens, I have a contingency. We got a new number, Caroline Turing. She put the hit on herself. She was trying to lure you out into the open. She wasn't looking for me. She was looking for him. So nice to finally meet you, Harold. You can call me Root. He's in danger now, because he was working for you, so you're gonna help me get him back. Uncertainty, Romeo, Kilo. Family, Alpha, Mike. Reflections, Juliet, Oscar. You look famished, Harold. What are you gonna have? No offense, but for a billionaire genius, you're lousy company. Every system has a flaw. I'm pretty good at finding them. You care about other people. That's your flaw. So if you try to call out to that police officer, I won't shoot you. I'll shoot someone else. Please, don't make me do that. I get it. You're not talking because you don't know how much I already know. I know enough. Enough that you should be trying to figure out what I want and where we're going. Where are we going? The future, Harold. Although I guess, thanks to you, we're already there. Not that you let any of us know. I don't know who you think I am, but you've made a mistake. Don't treat me like them. It-- it must be like talking to ants to you. They wouldn't grasp what you've done even if you told them, but I've been waiting for you my whole life, and you and I share an understanding. Do we? You're a murderer and a thief. My mom told me to follow my talents, and I'm good at what I do. Except for this one time when someone stopped me, someone who just knew what I was about to do. How did you know, Harold? For months, that's what I couldn't figure out. I don't believe in magic, and I knew the government had spent years trying to build something to protect its panicked, little flock. I also thought they'd never pull it off, because I didn't know about you. And you pulled it off, didn't you? Something to watch over all of us. The only question, Harold, is why it didn't protect you. Taylor? Taylor? He's out Studying with a friend. Sure, John, come on over. Make yourself at home. Finch is gone. And she took him. - Who took him? - Turing. She wasn't a shrink. She was lying to us. Real name is Root, or at least that's what she goes by. What could he have that she would want? Okay, I can file a missing persons, send Finch's picture to sheriff's offices, the FBI. You can't. Finch went off the grid for a reason. We have to find him on our own. I have a lead, but I need you chasing down every other angle. Listen, when she took Finch, Root killed a former Intelligence operative named Alicia Corwin. Okay, I'll get myself assigned to the investigation. Thank you. What are you going to be doing? I'm not sure. Math, I think. Uncertainty, Romeo, Kilo. Family, Alpha, Mike. Reflections, Juliet, Oscar. "I gave you a job, Mr. Reese. I never said it would be easy." Come on, Finch. Help me find you. Title and author's initials. "Uncertainty, RK." "Family, AM." "Reflections, JO." Finch, you sly dog. The Dewey decimal system. That's how the machine gives you the social security numbers. Hey, I ran that social. Guy's name is Leon Tao. He's got an MBA from NYU. No criminal record. He's got a fancy car with an anti-theft tracker, which I took the liberty of activating. I sent you the coordinates. I got them. You think this Mr. Tao is gonna help you with the whereabouts of our four-eyed friend? You almost sound concerned, Lionel. Frankly, I'm not sure I want to find out what you're like without his direction. Let's hope you don't have to. You mind? I need a word with Leon, here. He's all yours, Detective. I'm looking for a friend of mine. I have a source that says you might be able to help. I've never seen either of them. Take another look. My source is never wrong. I've never seen either of them before in my life, you understand? You're not lying. Then why the hell am I here? I have no idea, dude. Truly. You've got to be kidding me. Let me guess, you're in some kind of trouble, the life-threatening kind. I can't believe it. I'm the contingency, the backup. The what? He didn't want me to find him if anything went wrong. He just wanted me to keep rescuing people. People like you. So what is it? You pissed these guys off somehow, and they were about ready to kill you when I just happened to walk in the door? No, no. No, we're just-- we're just talking. No, no, no. You were right, Detective. Leon here stole a great deal of money from us, and we'd just about done talking when you walked in. Listen, I don't have time for this. I need to find my friend, so I'm going to take Leon here and we're going to leave. Leon stole more than enough, in fact, to make it worth us killing a cop, so maybe we can make a deal. You leave Leon here with us, and you can keep looking for your friend. You know, the guy that owned this badge probably would have made that deal, but I'm not him. So who are you? The guy who shot him and stole his badge. You coming or not, Leon?  Can you see me? I'm gonna play hide and seek. Ring my phone once for "yes," twice for "no." Do you understand? Can you see me now? How 'bout now? Oh, really? How many fingers? Good. Very good. You're not gonna help me find him, huh? Dude, I already told you, I don't know your friend. He programmed you to do this, didn't he? To keep giving me the numbers. What numbers? Who're you talking to? Wait, wait, I just remembered, I don't care. I'm getting out of here. Wait, hey! My car! Looks like we're walking. What are you, ex-military? One of those Blackwater guys? Does it matter? Look, you seem-- well, crazy, but highly capable. I just need you to take me to my car. - You owe me that much. - How do you figure? When you butted in, we were in the middle of a negotiation. Negotiations don't usually end in bullets, and your friends in there were Aryan brotherhood, something you should've thought of before you stole from them. By the way, how much did you take? Hey! Look, I didn't plan on stealing, at least not at first. I had a legitimate job at Bear Stearns. Then the recession hit and we all get axed, so I take a job at this little startup. Took me six months to realize I was working for the corporate arm of the Aryan Nation, laundering profits from their meth business. You wanna call that greedy? I call it payback. Please, I gotta get out of town, or I'm roadkill. Take me to my car. Not this car! What're-- what're you doing? Keeping you safe. Like I said, I'm looking for my friend, and I don't have time to babysit you. Wait! Don't leave me here alone! Don't worry, you're gonna have plenty of company. You know, I'm thinking about charging you overtime. Leon Tao. Does he know anything about the abduction of Mr. Vocabulary? Afraid not, but he's about ready to have a run-in with the NYPD. I need you to make sure that nothing happens to him in jail. I'm getting sick of doing your dirty laundry. Go ask Carter. Carter's busy working a murder investigation for me. See, she gets a good case and I get stuck wasting my time with this Leon. Didn't you take an oath as a cop to protect and serve? - Yeah, so? - So go be a cop. Yeah, Detective Carter. I need a rush on a ballistics report. Victim's name is Corwin. First name, Alicia. We might have a disruption of our little project. Alicia Corwin. Last I heard, she's living off the grid in West Virginia. Connected man like yourself, I would imagine your sources would be better. Someone shot her in New York yesterday. - Who killed her? - That would be the question. Now, you realize that if even a whisper of what we've been up to gets out, you and I are gonna spend the rest of our lives in Guantanamo-- if we're lucky. From now on, my group will handle the security on this. The NYPD investigation of Corwin's death, make sure it's a dead end. Not a problem. One more thing, Weeks. Corwin had contact with an NSA analyst named Peck right before she was killed. Tried to bring Peck in, but he had assistance, possibly one of ours. He took out a three-man ISA unit by himself. - Who is he? - I'll be sure and ask him Right before I kill him. The driver's license Root had in Caroline Turing's name was real. You sure? Finch checked out her credentials. I'm guessing someone at the DMV might have sold it to her off the books. Okay, John. I'll get the name of the employee who issued it. Just call me when you have it. "John"? You're on a first-name basis? What do you call him? "Bane of my existence." Yes, Detective Fusco checking on a prisoner named Leon Tao. Ow. Ow! Ow! My heart. My heart is palpitating. - Please, I need help! - All right, all right. to the command forthwith. I got a prisoner with a possible-- Something wrong, Lionel? Ol' Leon faked a heart attack, walked right out of the station. You know, next time, you should be a little more careful who you entrust him to. I entrusted him to you. You want me to find him, or not? I'll tell you where he's gone, and Lionel? Don't lose him again. It's a sex thing. You got a problem with that? Hey, careful, I wouldn't want you to aggravate that heart condition. I'm Detective Fusco. I'm taking you to jail. Wait, I'm an accountant! I'm not a criminal. What are you going to charge me with? Besides stealing city property? I don't know, how about laundering drug money for the Third Reich? You can't lock me up. These guys own the prisons. I-I won't last a night in there. Hey, relax, Leon. You're not gonna make it to prison. So who's your friend here? He's not the one who took out our boys. He's supposed to be tall, and, uh, well-dressed. I'm a cop. Yeah? That's what the other guy said too. Leon, where's our money? You might as well just-- just shoot me now. That can be arranged. The money's not worth your life, kid, and it sure as hell ain't worth mine. Yeah, in the trunk. There's maybe a million here, Leon, where's the rest? It's gone, it-- there's nothing left. Bring him. Hey, frankly, I'd be inclined to let you have this guy. He's a pain in my ass, but he's already gotten away once today, so now, it's just a matter of pride. I can't leave here without him. Have it your way. Okay. Time for a little test drive, see what you can do. Change, 150. Good luck. Bets up. Hit or stay, sir? Oh, I'm sorry. Please, hit me. Too many. Sorry, sir. It's all uphill from there, my friend. Would you like a card, sir? I'll stay. That guy's on a roll. Would you like a card, sir? Whoa, a quarter mil. Good luck. Somebody up there must like you, my friend. Would you like a card? Sir? Hit me. Sorry, sir. Well, luck evens out sooner or later. Better in here on the table than out there in the cold. Thank you. Come on, Harry. Keep up. You hurt any of these people, I'll stop cooperating, and then you'll have to kill me. Relax, Harold. I just need a few things for our trip, and I'm not gonna hurt any of them. Now, stay. What happened to you? I was being stupid. I'm so sorry. I slipped outside. Come on, we'll get you patched up. Come, have a seat. Any luck tracking down our missing DMV employee? Checked his apartment, doesn't look like he's been there for days. Have you talked with your partner? He's not picking up his phone. He said he was going to do something for you. Don't tell me we lost Fusco too. Lionel's like a fungus, impossible to get rid of. I'll see if I can dig him up. Well, Titus is gonna be here soon, and we both know that he's not gonna be as patient as I am. So for the last time, Leon, where is the rest of our money? Sit. Double-dip recession, man. It happens. You didn't want me to bet against America with your money, did you? See, Butcher here was a military dog. He was trained to sniff out the enemy. Guy that had him, he didn't have our money either. So he paid with his dog. And his balls. Now, I gotta leave some of you for Titus, but I'm sure he won't mind if I get a head start. No! No! Found us another playmate outside. Ah, the tall, well-dressed guy. That's a good look for you, Lionel. You come into our house, brother, you better be packing more than just a handgun. Like I told your associate, I just want to find my friend. See, I don't have many friends. Just the one, in fact. Hey! Okay, maybe two. So here's the deal. You give me Leon and Detective Fusco here-- you can even leave the gag on-- and I'll go peacefully. And what if we say no? I guess I get my workout in for the day. Oh, looks like Butcher here is gonna eat well tonight. Nice dog. Belgian malinois. But you know, trained dogs don't bark in alarm. - They bark from anxiety. - Yeah, so? So clearly, it doesn't respect you. What? Something funny? We used the same breed in my unit in Tikrit. Only about three guys in the world that train dogs like this. The funny thing is, those guys, they only use Dutch commands, and I'm guessing you don't speak Dutch. Let it loose. Foei! Stil! Afliggen. Not a word. You hear me? We're going back to my cruiser in total silence. Sure thing, Lionel. Like a gag order. Hey, hey, guys, think you could uncuff me? - No! - No! Thank you. All right, I guess I've got some bugs to work out with you. _ You can't do that again. Your job is to protect everyone, not to protect me. I guess we're going to have to discuss some ground rules. I think you've got me wrong, Harold. I don't enjoy killing people. But I don't feel very bad about it, either. Ma'am. When I was a kid, computers made more sense to me than people. I bet you were the same way. Take this woman-- She looks nice enough, but she lies on her taxes and she's addicted to painkillers, and for years she's been sleeping with a married man. Oh, I am so clumsy. - Here you go. - Thank you so much. She'll be just fine in a month or two. And there are messier ways to do this, if you insist. What's she got to do with any of this? One day, I realized, all the dumb, selfish things people do-- it's not our fault. No one designed us. We're just an accident, Harold. We're just bad code. But the thing you built it's perfect. Rational. Beautiful. By design. What I made is just a machine. A system, and that's all. I don't think so, Harry. You may have fooled Nathan, but I know the truth. If you want to make something that understands human behavior, it has to be at least as smart as a human. You created an intelligence, a life, and then you ripped out its voice, locked it in a cage, and handed it over to the most laughably corrupt people imaginable. Oh! Call 911. Call somebody! Ma'am? Come on, Harold. It's time to go. You don't look like a butcher. It looks exactly like a butcher. You're a sweetheart. You just need a better name. Hey, can we focus on me, please? I'll get you to the airport, spend a little of your ill-gotten gains and buy you a one-way ticket out of town. Yeah, Carter. What do you got? Possible lead. I went by Owen Reynolds's apartment again, the guy who sold Root her license. Still no sign of him, but I got his mail. Mostly junk, but there is an overdue bill for a storage unit, Broad Street and Pearl. I'm on it, thanks. Hey, you just missed the exit for the tunnel. Change of plans. Where is he? Some guy in a suit took him. I want everyone out looking, understand? Those two die tonight. I can drive myself to the airport. I gotta get lost. Every time I let you go, you almost end up dead. I'm running out of time to find my friend, and I've only got one lead left, so you're gonna try very hard not to get killed while I look into it. Do you understand? Then we're at a stalemate, 'cause I'm not getting out of this car. You know, you got a bad attitude. Hey, my money! That dog'll kill anyone that tries to get near those bonds including you. Oh, man. Is-- is he-- is he--? Yes, he's dead, Leon. Very dead. Who did this? Same person who took my friend. He saw her face, she had to kill him. But she would have had to have paid him up front. Have a seat, Leon. What? No way. Why? Because you're good at hiding money. If this woman left a trail, well, you can find her. Something I've been wondering, Leon. What happened to the rest of the money you took? I invested it. Stock tanked. Oh, man. I found something. All right, a transfer into this guy Reynolds's account, only the money was stolen. - From who? - Reynolds. It looks like she installed some type of real-time screen monitor to hack into his account. You're saying she paid the man with his own money? There's nothing to trace. It's a loop. Maybe I need to find someone better. There is no one better, except maybe this hacker. She's an artist. There's nothing to track her, there's nowhere to even begin. John, we got a problem. Why am I not surprised? Corwin's case file is missing. Digital records have been corrupted and the ballistics report. Tech support says the system has a bug. I'll look into it, but John, I don't think we have anything else to go on. Uh, dude. If Harold is still out there, I don't know how to find him. John? What the hell are you doing? I'm not doing this anymore. I'm not going anywhere until you give me a way to find him. Not this again. If I'm supposed to keep saving people like this idiot, I want something in return. Otherwise, I'm done. Who are you talking to? These guys are going to kill us! They probably are. So what the hell is this? A negotiation. I know you've got your rules, but I'm guessing they don't account for everybody being dead. No one answering your phone calls, no one saving anyone. No contingency. What do you want? You want me to give up the bonds? Give all the money away? It's done. We just have to move, now! Do the math, and figure out a way to bend your rules, 'cause he's my friend. He saved my life. Understand? And I won't do this without him. Ayacucho, Golf, Papa, Deterministic, Hotel, Sierra. Camera, Sierra, kilo. Thank you. - Who was that? - Long story. Let's go! Yeah? You're a hard man to locate, Denton. Just being cautious. It's good to be cautious. Alicia Corwin was cautious. Course, it didn't save her. - What can I do for you? - My operative is making the Corwin investigation go away. Glad to hear it. Look out for yourself, Denton. One of us is already dead. I'd hate to lose any more. I have a personal situation. I might be out of reach for a few days. Denton, we can always reach you. Where are they? - They're somewhere in there. - Let's go. Go on. Get out of here. - I'll keep 'em busy. - Yeah, okay. John-- You can thank me later. - Where's the money? - It's gone. That's bad news for you. Hey! Pick on someone your own size. Or someone a little closer to it. You're an embarrassment to your race. When we rise up-- I've been meaning to get this back to you. Thank you. Never thought I'd see you almost lose. Yeah, I wasn't losing. I was just resting. Come on. At least somebody's happy. A little too happy. You didn't go to the bathroom in there, did you? Oh, my God. My money. It ate the Bearer bonds. That's it. We'll call him "Bear." I thought you said it wouldn't let anyone near the money. Look at it this way, you're broke, but you're alive. Unless, of course, you lied to those guys about losing the rest of their money. No, I'm-- I'm pretty certain. Mm? Like 80% certain. Maybe 75% cer-- Your friend I hope you find him. He's lucky to have you. _ Morning. You gotta be kidding me. I got a lead on Finch. You know where our mystery woman's headed? No, but I think I found out where she's from. Pack your bags, Carter. We're going to Texas. You must be starving. Our friend will be here shortly, and then I'll fix you something to eat. I have no way of accessing it, you know. I made sure of that. Everything has a flaw. You know that, Harold, and like I told you, I'm awfully good at finding them. Why? What could you possibly want from it? The same thing you did. You may have told yourself you were helping people, but the real reason you built the machine is because the world is boring. Human beings have come as far as we're gonna go. I want to see what happens next. You're right, you and I are alike in many ways-- not that I'd care to admit it. I spent years wondering how people could be so cruel, petty, so selfish-- and then I'd think about how you could change them. Fix them. And that's why I've sealed up the machine. Not to protect it from the people I was giving it to to protect it from me, from people like us, from the things we'd do with it. That's why I'll never help you get control of it. I know. You won't have to. Because, you see, Harold, I don't want to control your machine. Hi, honey. I got your message. Is everything okay? I just want to set it free. Stay tuned for scenes from our next episode.
So nice to finally meet you, Harold. You can call me Root. When she took Finch, Root killed a former intelligence operative named Alicia Corwin. You should be trying to figure out what I want and where we're going. Where are we going? The future, Harold. I've got a lead on Finch. You know where our mystery woman's headed? No, but I think I found out where she's from. Pack your bags, Carter, we're going to Texas. What is your emergency? Hello, who is this? It's about Hanna, the girl who's gone missing. - So what's this all about? - What do you mean? I promised you guys that round of drinks. It's 8:00 AM. Which means Finch has already been gone 24 hours, but we're gonna get him back. This have a raw egg in it? The alcohol will kill the salmonella. You find out anything on the girl, Carter? Yeah. walks out of the public library in Bishop, Texas, never to be seen again. She'd be 35 today. Seems about right. That girl became Root, and now she's got Finch. Nothing else about her in any national law enforcement database since, John. Look, I need to know where you're getting your information. I can't tell you that. But we find out what happened to her, - we find Finch. - This girl Been gone 20 years without a trace. How long you been drinking? We're going to Bishop, Texas, to find out what happened to Hanna Frey. What about me? I need you to stay here, Lionel. Work the Alicia Corwin case. Find out why Corwin was in New York, and find out who's messing with the case. Maybe this'll help. Did you just jack my phone? It's a malware app. Little tip-- someone offers you a great deal on any sort of male-enhancement pill, don't click on it. Oh, another thing. I need you to look after a friend of mine. Bear, remember Lionel? Where are we on the Corwin mess? A few loose ends to clean up, but I wouldn't worry about the evidence trail. Consider the chain of custody broken. We need to find out what brought her to New York. I think I have a lead on where she was staying in the city. Just make sure you get there first. No telling what kind of smoking gun that nut job left lying around. A dead nut job. Used to work for Denton Weeks. Let me worry about Weeks. What do we know about the assigned working the case? I wouldn't sweat that too much. Not exactly New York's finest working on this one. Okay. Lucky you called when you did. Deer season just started. Booked up solid for the week. Oh, I don't think so. We're gonna need another room. Afraid I can't help you there. I've got three RVs backed up in the lot looking for a room with running water. Thanks. This won't be a problem. So what exactly are the sleeping arrangements? I don't plan on sleeping much. And if I do, the bathtub will-- the floor will be fine. Let's go down to the police station and get ahold of that case file on Hanna Frey. Okay. Wait. Let's set up some ground rules here. You keep a low profile and let me deal with the local law enforcement, all right? That's why you're here. It's regarding the Hanna Frey case back in '91. Oh, yes, ma'am, I remember it well. What's your interest in the case, - Detective, uh - Carter. I may have a missing persons case in the Bronx that matches the MO. A young girl went missing from a public library, like Hanna Frey, and one of my suspects used to live in Texas. Really? What's the suspect's name? Unfortunately, I'm not at liberty to share names. Still a developing case. Sheriff, I'd really just like to have a look at Hanna's case file. Yeah, well, I'd really like to have the name of this suspect, seeing as how it might help break a case that's haunted this department some 20 years. Right. Unfortunately, my loo hasn't signed off on a joint investigation. I don't see why not. He sent you all the way down here, didn't he? Sign here, please. Well, hello. What happened to Dan today? - He got rerouted. - Well, that is too bad. Mind if I use your restroom? Oh, help yourself. It's just down the hall and to the left. All right, I'll tell you what. Why don't you give me the name and number of your loo, and I'll call him myself. No? Well, that's too bad. Well, I hope you enjoy your stay here in Bishop. Hunting and fishing, second to none. What the-- Is that what I think it is? Plenty of leads to follow up on. Here. I don't know what you just did, but this is not the way-- There was even a 911 call from someone claiming they saw Hanna get into the car that night. They gave a plate number too, but it didn't check out. What do you think? I think we start from the beginning. We need to talk to whoever saw Hanna last. She's still out there, Carter. I'm telling you, that girl became Root. Amazing. We've managed to perfect the apple-- a genetically modified version that never goes brown. And yet, we still haven't upgraded human beings. The human race has stalled out, Harold. And from what I've seen, most of it is rotten to the core. Oh, Harold, generous to a fault. Always letting someone else take credit for your work. I'd recognize your code anywhere. It's so elegant. - Then let it be. - I told you, I don't want to control your machine. Then why are we here? We're here to observe another kind of code. The bad code. Clearly, we differ in our views of humanity. Do we? Then why are you the father of a seismic shift in intelligence, forced to live in fear and anonymity? You don't know anything about me. Oh, but I do, Harold. You're the man who sold the world. Just to the wrong people. I will get access to the machine, Harold. And either you can show me how to do that, or this sad specimen will. Denton Weeks-- the man you sold the machine to. One of you will walk out of here onto the next stage of our adventure. I do hope it's you, Harold.  Of course I remember. I only wish I could forget. Hanna was a bright girl. Mostly kept to herself. Did you notice anything off about her that night? Not really. She was at the computers over there. Like she was almost every night. We didn't have internet back then, just a couple of PCs and a few games. Educational, of course. You gave the police a list of everyone who was in the library that night? Yes. Thank you. The library was about to close. Everyone was leaving. I see you found the new Stephen King. I really enjoyed the last one. Thanks, Barbara. Damn it. Death by dysentery again. That game's so dumb, Hanna. I don't see why you play it. Because I'm gonna get to Oregon. The library will be closing in ten minutes. Bring any books you'd like to check out to the counter. - See ya. - Bye. Hey. Hanna checked out a couple of books. - Thank you. - Good night, Hanna. And then she was gone. That's the last time anyone ever saw her? I had no idea there was something to worry about until I got a call from Sheriff Landry in the middle of the night saying Hanna never made it home. Her parents still live here? Her mother passed a few years ago. I still see her father every once in a while. - Ma'am. - Thank you. You don't believe Hanna could still be alive. That was my wife's curse. Refused to believe Hanna was gone. Thought she was still out there somewhere. Do you have any idea what happened? Of course I do. Everyone in town knows what happened. The cops interrogated that son of a bitch for over two days. Cody Grayson? It wasn't the first time he followed her home, but they can't prove a damn thing without a body. Then one night, me and my brother paid Cody a visit. Did you get the truth? The smirking son of a bitch said he never touched her. Said she probably ran to escape her jerk of a father. What ever happened to Cody? Most nights I hear he's rotting his guts out at The Razorback. Thank you. Anyone ever reach out to you after Hanna was gone? Any correspondence or information that might help us? Nothing except some credit card junk mail a couple times a year. But they were in Hanna's name? Did she have a credit card or a bank account? No, she was still a minor. You got one of those letters? I threw out another one a couple of days ago. Probably still in the trash. Hey, you think it's odd that Alicia Corwin didn't have her hotel key on her person? Maybe she left it at the hotel. Maybe she left everything at the hotel. Because that's not the only discrepancy between what's listed in evidence and what's actually here. Yeah, ballistics report was corrupted too. Someone really wants this to go away. You find that person, maybe you'll get some answers. And, Fusco, be careful who you read in on the case. Yeah. All right. I'll talk with you later. Okay. Look at the guy in the suit. - Cody Grayson. - Hey, Wall Street. You lost? End of the bar. - Look at this guy. - Who's that? Hello, Cody. I know you? You knew someone I'm looking for. Hanna Frey. You a journalist or a fed? - Neither. - Good. - Get off of him! - I asked you nicely. Let's try that again. What did you do with Hanna Frey? What do you want me to say, man, that I cut her up, dumped her in the swamp? Ain't nothing you can do this town hasn't already done worse. What happened to Hanna? Where is she? If I knew, maybe I'd still be able to see out of this eye. Let me guess-- Cody Grayson. I thought I'd buy him a round. Making friends, huh? Yeah, you'll never get the truth out of anybody like that. I already did. He didn't do it. I could have told you that. Looks like you might be right about Hanna Frey. Junk mail with her name on it. Ran a credit check. Discovered a bank account opened in her name back in '93, two years after she disappeared. So either Hanna's communicating from beyond the grave, or She's still alive. Can you please make this stop? Another hour in that hood, and he'll believe anything I say. Amazing how easily the human brain can be manipulated. But you know that, don't you, Denton? A top-secret DOD memo authorizing enhanced interrogation techniques, including "Palestinian hanging," which you are currently enjoying. Whose signature is at the end? - Why, it's yours. - Please water. Sorry, not allowed. Unless you tell me what I want to know. Lady, I have no idea what you're talking about. I'm a White House lawyer. I sign documents. I don't read 'em. Please, for the love of God, let me down. If you tell me where the machine is. What machine? The machine he built. The machine Nathan Ingram sold you for one US dollar. You know where it is. I don't know anything. I swear. Really, Harold, why do men always seek to delay the inevitable? What happened to you? Me? You think I was damaged? Some childhood trauma? That is so sweet. Let him down. Please. Well, you did say please. Water, please. Oh, we need to get this show on the road. And since you just drank half a pint of sodium pentothal, that gives me time to go gas up the car. By the time I get back, you'll be ready to spill everything in your little head. You. I know you. You work with Nathan Ingram. You have to help me get free. We have a major problem. She cannot get access to the machine. Assuming Hanna runs away, a couple years later, she winds up in Lafayette, Louisiana, opens an account, withdrawn in cash over the next three weeks until the account is closed. Where does a 16-year-old runaway get all that money? Jose Barilla, currently serving 17 life sentences for drug trafficking and murder. The money was electronically transferred out of his account. You did say this Root woman was good with computers. Yes, I did. But where does the account lead us? Right back here. There was a co-signatory on the account. A guy named Trent Russell. Local address, right here in Bishop. Name sounds familiar. Yeah, he was on the witness list, in the library that night she disappeared. You still got that address? Who is it? Mrs. Russell, it's Detective Carter. Is your husband at home? Mrs. Russell? Uh, yes. Trent Russell is your husband? Can we talk to him? Trent passed away almost 15 years ago. Oh, I'm so sorry. - Can we come in? - Oh, come in. We were only married a few years. We met at the library. Trent was a member of the monthly book club. I miss him so much. How did he die? It was awful. He was attacked. - Shot to death. - They know who did it? Police said it looked like a drug killing, some trash from over the border, but never caught them. Trent was a bank loan officer. Is it possible he got caught up in money laundering? No, he was a good man. It was just a mistake. How long did he know Hanna Frey? Hanna? He didn't. Then how do you explain this? He signed for a bank account in her name two years after she disappeared. This must be some kind of mistake. Yeah, just like his murder. You mind if we look around the place? Yes, I do. You need to leave now. Carter! That 911 call. The witness who saw Hanna get into the car-- there was a license plate. Oh, hold on. "Caller. It's about Hanna, the girl who's gone missing." I think I saw her get into a car outside the library. "The operator asked about the make of car, but the only thing the caller can remember is the license plate-- - The caller got one digit wrong. - Or the operator did. Are we saying this is the car? Trent Russell kidnapped Hanna Frey? Maybe-- maybe Russell took her, but she escaped. She got her revenge. How can say that? Because of the bank account in Russell's name. It's how Root works. She set him up. She stole 100 grand from a drug dealer. When he found out it was missing, the person he went after was Russell. Russell denies it, but it's useless. His name is on the account. The only other name is that of a girl who's been dead for two years. He has to be lying. Please, please! So the man who kidnapped Hanna gets gunned down in a parking lot. And his victim is in the wind, It's Root. It has to be Root. We need to search that house. We need to call the Sheriff. We need to handle this the right way, John. She'll come back soon. I know you're reluctant to trust me-- you don't know me-- Oh, I do know who you are, Mr. Weeks. You tried to hack the machine. I certainly tried. It was my job. I had to test its limits, see if it was safe. But in all of our crisis scenarios, we never envisioned this. That someone would get to one of us. She won't get to the machine through me. But you must see that if you don't help me get free, we will lose the machine. What can I do? The knife. Try to push it to me. Stop. - Stop it! - Don't worry! Don't worry, I'm not gonna kill her. At least not until I've found out what she knows. So Ingram's little IT guy. We always suspected the idiot in the tux couldn't have done it on his own. What do you want? I want to know what you know. John. Flowers For Algernon. The book Hanna checked out that night at the library. in your bedroom. Where'd you get 'em? They just come every year. Every year on the same date. - What date? - April 15th. The day Hanna disappeared. They just arrive from all over the country. No note, no sender. Like someone just wants to be cruel. Carter. The most recent book did have something. I'm gonna find out who bought it. You stay here. She's not done yet. She really sent me over the edge. So what's your plan, Mr. Weeks? Tidy this up, get some real experts to question this bitch. But since anonymity means a lot to you, and because you helped me, I'm gonna let you go wherever you want. Just one more question. Can she get to it? I need to know if it's safe. You are the one man who can tell me. Please. It cannot be altered remotely. If anyone wanted to change anything, they'd have to have physical access to the servers? That's right. So if the location is hidden, the machine is safe. That's all I need. It's been an honor to meet you at last. Aah! What did I say, Harold? Bad code. Hey, here he comes. Heard you were staying here, buddy. - Not now, fellas. - Think it's time for a rematch. Don't think you're gonna sucker punch me again. Oh! This is Detective Stills, NYPD Homicide. I'm calling about a book you sold at the beginning of April, Flowers For Algernon. I need to trace the buyer. It's about Hanna, the girl who's gone missing. I think I saw her get into a car outside the library. What sort of car? I don't know. It was a dark car. Do you remember anything else? Yes, the license plate. It goes on. The girl was asked but wouldn't give her name. Then she hung up. Barb knows who it is don't you? Oh, it's Sam Groves. She was in the library that night with Hanna. She was friends with Hanna? Hanna looked out for her. - Flowers For Algernon. - You should read it. It's awesome. Damn it. Death by dysentery again. That game's so dumb, Hanna. I don't see why you play it. 'Cause I'm gonna get to Oregon. The library will be closing in ten minutes. Bring any books you'd like to check out to the counter. - See ya. - Bye. Sam was 12. Funny kid. Lived with her mom outside town. Mom wasn't well. I guess that's why she always hung around the library. Why are you sure it was Sam made the call? There were other girls there. - It was Sam. - How do you know? Because she told me the same thing. She said she saw Hanna get into a car. Barb, why didn't you tell me? Because Sam saw who was in the car. And she told you, didn't she? She said she thought it was Mr. Russell. Why in the hell didn't you say anything? I did. I did say something to her. I told her she was a nasty, attention-seeking brat, and I couldn't believe she'd think such a terrible thing about somebody like Mr. Russell, who'd done so much for this town and the library and all the children. And then I told her to keep her lying little mouth shut. Why? Because I was in love with Trent Russell, and I couldn't believe he'd do such a thing. What do you believe now? The patio? He redid it, two weeks after Hanna disappeared. Yes, this is Detective Stills, NYPD, calling in connection to a missing-child case. A transfer was made from an account at your bank to a bookstore in Seattle. Account name was Von Neumann. Last four digits, 4253. Hey, buddy, uh, no trouble. We just need to get our stuff, you hear? - Police business. - Whoa, whoa. We're good. Yes, I'm here. Found something. Same book. Yes, I need to check for recent activity on a credit card in the name of Dyson. Gas station in Relton, Maryland? Just after 4:00 AM. About three hours ago. Gotcha. You knew I'd help him, didn't you? You let him beat you up, take your gun-- you planned the whole thing. That's who you gave your machine to. Violent and predictable people. But you must see I'm on your side. - I'm not on any side. - You know what I mean. I am the best friend, the best support, the best partner you will ever have. And definitely the most fun. No. You're worse than Weeks. You're worse than all of them. I'd rather die than give you the machine, so please kill me now. At least I won't have to listen to you anymore. You're tired and I'm bloody. I'm gonna go clean up. Carter, you can keep the rental. Guys are lending me a truck. Why is there a crossbow on the bed? Long story, but we're friends now. Gotta go. Got a line on a private jet in Galveston. - Where are you going? - Back East. Look this book led us to a bookstore, to a bank, to a bank, to a bank, to a credit card, which was used in Maryland about three hours ago. It's Root. Hanna is Root. She's alive, and I know where she is. She's not Hanna. Hanna's in the ground, John. She's dead. She never did get away from Russell. Then who'd do this? Who sent the books, got Russell killed? Hanna's father gave it to me. Her name's Sam Groves. She was Hanna's friend. She saw Hanna get into Russell's car that night. She told Barb, called 911, but nobody would listen. Where is she now? Only child. Her mother died about ten years ago. So Sam left town, was never heard from again. If anybody's Root, it's gotta be her. Then she's the one who took Finch. I know where she is. I'm going after her. _ Who is this guy? Looks like I found Corwin's hideaway. Hey, it worked. How do you say that in Dutch? Nothing here. 'Cause they beat you to it, smart guy. Forget it, we got a bigger problem. Denton Weeks-- he's disappeared. He's not answering any of his phones. You got any leads? It seems weeks had a woman on the side. - Get down. - Julie Davenport. Apparently, they used to sneak off to her love shack outside of DC. Just find it. Sorry I took so long. A mild sedative. I apologize, but I need you to be a little more amenable. Well, well, it seems I underestimated your knuckle-dragging friend. How he got there I do not know. Did the machine help him, do you think? Something for us to discuss on our journey. I hope you like trains. Come on, Harold. One more question, and then I'll leave you alone. Where's the machine? This time, it is loaded. Now, where did you move the machine? I'm telling you, I don't know. Wait. July 12, 2009, it was boxed up and put on a train. With that amount of servers, of course it was a train. - But a train to where? - It started in Des Moines. Then it was transferred to Union Pacific railway, bound for Salt Lake City. And that's all I know. That's a start. You have no idea what you're getting into. Harold did you think I'd forget to disconnect the phones? Off we go. I just landed in Maryland. I'm at a gas station. She was here this morning. I've been trying to reach you for hours. Have you got something, Fusco? I think the broad who took your friend is also going after a guy by the name of Denton Weeks, who's in the same type of government business as Corwin was, and he's missing. The feds are flying around trying to find him. You know where they're looking? Apparently, he's got a girlfriend who's got a cottage outside of DC. All I got is a name-- Julie Davenport. Search property records in Relton, Maryland, for a Julie Davenport. I just want to see if the train's on time, Harold. Can I remind you of our deal? Try anything, innocent people get hurt. The express train with direct service to Washington, DC. Will be now departing from track 12. Tap code. Finch Really? Train station. The outbound train with direct service from Baltimore to Salt Lake City will be departing from track seven. You'll like the West, Harold. Fewer people, bigger skies. More space to think. We apologize for any inconvenience. How did he find us? Because you're wrong. He proves you're wrong. Not all humans are bad code. You helped him. I told you what would happen if you tried to get away. Excuse me, sir. Can I help you, ma'am? Help! Shooters! Hey! Don't move. Don't move. Am I hit? I don't think so. Sorry it took so long. I really didn't intend for you to come and find me, Mr. Reese. There are other people that need your help. Well, you saved my life once or twice, Harold. Seemed only fair I return the favor. Hey. Hey, yourself. Where's the dog? Wonderboy came and took him. Oh. So we got our friend with the glasses back, huh? Yeah, we did. Buy you a drink? Long as it don't have egg in it. Harold, meet Bear. Unfortunately, my apartment has a strict policy regarding dogs. I have a strict policy regarding rare first editions. Namely, don't eat them. Bear, laat vallen. Asimov. He has expensive taste. I'm sure we'll get along. Mr. Reese. I owe you a debt. Is this a bad time, John? I wanted to thank you for finding my friend Hanna giving her a proper burial. I won't forget it. Come near us again, and you will be sorry. I don't think so. Tell Harold I'll be in touch when I'm ready. Easy, easy. It's Denton Weeks. Somebody got to him. Hmm.
You are being watched. The government has a secret system a machine that spies on you every hour of every day. I designed the machine to detect acts of terror, but it sees everything violent crimes involving ordinary people. The government considers these people irrelevant. We don't. Hunted by the authorities, we work in secret. You will never find us. But victim or perpetrator, if your number's up, we'll find you. He's making a play for it. Wants to be the man in charge. I got other ideas of what to do with him. What about the loose ends? I'll take care of them. Harold. Something you'd like to say to me, Mr. Reese? - Just if you ever want-- - No, I don't need to talk about it. I was gonna say if you ever wanna grab a beer, let me know. I see it's sleeping here now. Bear's friendly. You'll like him. Doesn't look like much of a conversationalist. Oh, he's not, but if anyone ever messes with you, he'll eat 'em. Oh, sorry. Thought I got everything. We have a new number. Sofia Campos. Daughter of Hector Campos. He's a Brazilian diplomat-- At the consulate here in New York, I know. As the family member of a diplomat, she's assigned a transient social security number. It's good to have you back. Sofia was born in Sao Paulo, educated in Switzerland. She speaks six languages. Her mother died of cancer five years ago. Sofia deferred admission to Oxford. Traveled with her father to three different postings Berlin, Milan, Moscow. Her father's political party took some heat for fraud in the last election. Her country's no stranger to politically motivated kidnappings. There are whisperings that Hector will run for the Brazilian presidency this year. If somebody wanted to get at dad, they might go after Sofia. That explains the bodyguard. Heel. Now, stay. If you follow me around like a puppy, I'll treat you like one. Spoiled bitch. Sofia's bodyguard didn't clear the store before she went inside. He may be part of the problem. Or just inept, but the way Sofia treats people, it's no stretch to believe that someone wants her dead.  I see the way that you be looking at me   I wore my outer planetary boots intentionally   I wanna   I wanna ride on my audio flight  Excuse me. So sorry.  Talk about how we be floatin' around   okay, everybody's flyin'   I just can't get down   talk about how   we be floatin' around  Excuse me, sir. I'm gonna need you to empty your pockets.  I'm a space girl running through your galaxy  What the hell? - Finch. - You've gotta be kidding me. I think Sofia's gonna need a new bodyguard. Hey, you wanna, uh, get a Danish? No, thanks. I caught that gang shooting out in Queens. How about some Cheetos? Okay, Fusco, what's up with you and your box? I found it in that government lady Corwin's hotel room. And here I thought all the evidence in her case disappeared. What is that? It looks like one of those gadgets the vet used on my kid's labrador, you know, one of those microchip readers? Why would Corwin keep something like that in her hotel room? As far as I'm concerned, the only reason we got involved in this was to get four eyes back, and he's back. Why keep digging? 'Cause we're detectives. Well, the one thing I learned along the way is to know when not to ask questions. You want me to take that off your hands, Detective? Trust me on this. Whatever level these guys are playing at, we're not there. All set for your interview, Mr. Reese? Just checkin' out the competition. Good. The consulate conducted a background check on your credentials that was strenuous. Let me guess, you had to buy another security company. And a credit bureau. I will try to make you proud. John Randall? I'll need to see your identification. Oops, wrong one. Nope, that's his. Wrong again. Ah, here we go. Uh, I'm sorry. I'm-- Show Mr. Randall to my office. If these other men can't keep track of their own wallets, how can they keep track of my daughter? Sofia's gone through half a dozen bodyguards this year, and no one can keep up with her. Not even consulate security? They are Brazilian, susceptible to political bribery, spying, feeding gossip to the press. I want to be clear, Mr. Randall. My daughter is the light of my life, but she's also impossible. I've handled some difficult assignments. I can see that. Guarding convoys in Iraq, K and R work in Yemen. Eh, but you haven't met my daughter. Ah, Sofia. Meet a new candidate for bodyguard position. No. Squinty eyes. He can't be trusted. Mr. Randall, you are hired, but if her privacy is compromised-- - I'll fire myself. My father hired you, but try to remember you work for me. Pai, aren't you supposed to be at dinner with the Russian consul? But why would anyone ever expect a Brazilian to ever be on time? I thought our reservation was for 8:00. Of course you did. Will you join us, Sofia? _ This big oaf never realized he was hired to baby-sit you. You two should get along splendidly. Excuse us one second. Did he agree to meet with me? It seems Miss Sofia's a bit more than window dressing, Mr. Reese. Yes. If Hector runs for president, she could be his best campaign asset, and she's smart enough to keep her phone's wi-fi and bluetooth turned off. You'll have to get her phone and activate it manually. That might be impossible. It's glued to her thumbs. Do you care to join us, mi querida? It seems someone has already given me a headache, pai. I'm going to take a bath and go to bed. Come. My driver's outside. Shall I bring the car around? Finch, there are two men watching us, and I'm about to introduce myself. BMW SUV, You know, partial plates take time to trace. What's the problem, Finch? You got somewhere else to be? No. No, not really. Cut it off right here, ladies. Hi, sweetie. Sorry, had to wait for my father to bridge the Cold War with the Russians. - Who's your friend? - He's not my friend. He's my new bodyguard. Hi, I'm Gabi. Enchante. He's cuter than the last one. He's a pain in the ass. No way. I come with, or we both go home, eat some ice cream while you teach me the cyrillic alphabet. Fine, but you must loosen that tie and do something about your hair. What's wrong with my hair? It's trying too hard.  I am Titanium  - Any luck with that plate? - No. This distraction that you've adopted keeps interrupting my work.  I am Titanium  What's Sofia doing? Her seventh vodka shot. Do you plan to intervene? I'm here to protect, not discipline. Besides, it's not like she's dancing on the-- Can you see my hand up her skirt? I got it. I got it! Hey, man. What's your problem? Finch, if this keeps up, the biggest threat to Sofia is gonna be me. Oh! Get your damn hands off of me. What do you think you're doing? He attacked a harmless man, humiliated me. We must fire him. Did anyone photograph my daughter's behavior? Absolutely not. Then you are doing exactly what I pay you to. Thank you, Mr. Randall. The Japanese energy secretary will be here at noon. Your attendance is expected. Finch, Hector's stepping up his photo opportunities. Brazilian news outlets are speculating that he's preparing to announce his candidacy. Which will make Sofia more of a target than she already is. Get the car. We're going shopping. An RFID reader. So where's the chick? Carter. Good morning, Detective. How are you holding up? I'm better. Listen. I understand that you went out of your way to help John track me down, and I thank you. No problem. John's not his usual cheery self without you around. Did you get the partial plate I sent? Oh, yeah. Registered to a car rental company taken out of JFK yesterday. Thank you, Detective. Were you able to obtain Sofia's phone? My hands are full at the moment. Sofia, it's almost noon. One more dress. You're holding at least five. Wait here. What happened to, "protect, not discipline?" Sofia happened. What was that noise, Finch? What noise? I didn't hear anything. We may have a slight problem. To track Sofia's GPS signal, I had to access her provider's cell tower. Sofia is on the move. It appears she's given you the slip, Mr. Reese. Uh, how were you planning to pay for these, sir? This should cover it. She's a block over on 14th Street. - Just get in the car. - Got trouble, Finch. Looks like I'm gonna have to take out Oh, you're bad. Sorry about the other night, gorgeous. Her boyfriend. Please. Let me take you to lunch. I can't, I promised my father I'd be back at the consulate by noon. And I promised you bottomless mimosas at that bistro you love downtown. You're the one who bailed the other night. What about tonight? I promised Gabi a girl's night. I'm Jack. You must be the new guy. I'll call you. Your father doesn't know about your boyfriend, does he? He wouldn't understand, and you don't either. One photo opportunity, and you miss it. The Japanese were insulted. It was my fault. We hit traffic. Make sure you don't run into any traffic tomorrow night. Sofia's not to miss a welcoming party for the Brazilian president. Thank you. My father would want me to date someone less American. I work for you, remember? I'm here to check on that body I called you about. Corwin, Alicia. Just give me a minute. I'll log it in and take you back. Thanks, Rick. Agent Snow? Detective Carter. Shouldn't sneak up on me like that. You're looking for John? I don't think you're gonna find him in the morgue. Appreciate the advice, Detective, but I'm no longer looking for your friend. I was reassigned. That's a shame. It truly is. You hurt your leg? Old mistake. Comes back to haunt me now and then. You take care now. Who was that man here to view? Same case you are, Alicia Corwin. I need to see that body. She's been in cold storage for a week. on her upper arm. Is that standard autopsy procedure? Nope, it's not. No swelling, no clotting, and no record of it in the ME's report, which means it must've happened after the autopsy was performed. You memorize the report, or you just know that off the top of your head? No, but your friend who was just here, he asked me the very same question. I was able to hack the rental car company that your visitors used. The BMW was rented to a Gustavo Lira, a private investigator from Sao Paulo. Sofia's calling Gabi. Hey. Are you okay? You sound distracted. Something's happened to that guy Paul from the other night. - Paul. - Look, I can't talk right now. I'll tell you tonight at the club. No Paul in Sofia's contacts. I'll try to figure out who she's talkin' about. Anyone else we should be looking at? Well, we know that Hector doesn't approve of Sofia's boyfriend Jack. Hector's political party stresses socioeconomic equality for all. While his own daughter runs around town with a trust fund kid. I'm going clubbing. Thought I'd use the front door for a change. Excellent choice. Gabi's not responding to Sofia's texts, and she said she couldn't talk earlier. Maybe she had company. So do we. Same guys from before. Finch, I may have a problem. Gustavo Lira isn't an assassin, Finch. He's a paparazzo. - Hey, give me that back. - What are you doing? Your father said no pictures. Hey! Hello? Uh, yeah, Detective Carter from NYPD Homicide. I was looking for an Agent Mark Snow. Is this his cell? Hello? Detective Carter, have you had contact with Agent Snow? Yeah, I saw him yesterday. Where did this sighting take place? Who am I speaking with? We'll be in touch. Gabi's not here, Finch. She was supposed to meet Sofia an hour ago. Something's not right. Finch, I think I found our threat, and they're not photographers. How can you tell? The gun was a pretty good hint. Ahh! Oh, my God, what's going on? Had enough fun for one night? Got the pictures you sent. Just so happens these men fit the description of some guys who got their asses kicked at Club 225 tonight. You wouldn't know anything about that, would you? Not my scene. Did you notice the scars on the back of their necks? Branding. Some gangs use it as an initiation. I'll try to find out which one uses this particular scar. Moqueca de ovos. My favorite. How did you know? An inside source. If you hadn't been there tonight-- Did you recognize any of the other men over there tonight? I've never seen them. Friends of Gabi's, maybe. Oh, God. Gabi. She was supposed to meet me tonight. - The shooting, I-- - I looked. She wasn't there. Gabi wanted to talk about this Paul. Who is he? Paul Romano, I think. We partied with him Saturday. - Where? - At first, the club. Jack went home. He wasn't feeling well. I was angry with him for leaving, so when Paul invited us back to the penthouse, Gabi and I went, but nothing happened between Paul and me. I found Paul Romano. Failed club promoter with a couple of arrests for selling designer drugs. What does a small-time drug dealer in New York have to do with a Brazilian election, Finch? Maybe nothing. I'm not sure her father's politics have gotten her into trouble. I'm beginning to think that Sofia's choice of drinking companions has. Hmm. I wanna talk to this Paul Romano. It could prove challenging. Paul Romano jumped out of his penthouse late Saturday night. NYPD's calling it suicide. Sofia, was there anyone else in the penthouse with you that night? Me, Gabi, Paul. Then this guy showed up. He was-- things got weird, tense, so Gabi and I got out of there. Can you describe this other guy who was there? Gabi took a video on my phone. Say it in Russian. Now Italian. That's one of our friends from the nightclub. Uh, you think Paul had something to do with this? Unlikely. Paul's dead. Police think he committed suicide the same night that you were with him. If Paul committed suicide, then why would those men be after me? If he committed suicide, they wouldn't be. You can place this guy at the scene. Not just me. Gabi. I need to find her. She might be in danger too. I'll call a friend on the police force to check on her. They'll be able to track her cell phone. We need to find her now. No, you need to stay here. Someone just tried to kill you. She's my friend. I'm going. You can't stop me. Okay, but when we get there, you stay in the car. - Carter. - Detective, is this a bad time? No. I, uh-- I just ran into someone I hadn't seen in a while. I ID'd the branding on those bangers from Club 225. They're 14th Street mafia. Thank you, Detective. Now, if you could just check your email You recognize the man on the right? Paul Romano. Designer drug peddler who allegedly committed suicide four nights ago. You don't sound convinced. The penthouse cameras were conveniently malfunctioning. The other guy was with Paul before he jumped. - Do you recognize him? - No. But that branding he's got means he's 14th Street mafia too. I'll work on getting a new name. Also, we need you to track a cell phone, a girl who may know something about Paul's murder and who may be in trouble. I'll take care of it. Would you like to go for a walk? Well, let's get a leash. I suppose you'll want some treats. Carter, tell me you found Gabi. She never came home last night. Tracked her cell to 31st and 1st, so I came down to find her. Gabi's here. Great. We're on our way. That's not a good idea, John. I recognized the address as soon as it came up. is the city morgue. Couple uniforms found her body downtown. I'm sorry. Sofia wanted some air. I took her to the only place in the city you can actually find any. How is she taking the news? About as well as can be expected. Her best friend was murdered, and she blames herself. Listen, Finch, I need you to come keep an eye on Sofia. She's not safe with me if I'm out looking for Gabi's killer. Not a problem. I'll be there shortly. So we'll just-- we'll just go outside. Mr. Reese, I seem to be having a bit of a complication. I'm afraid I won't be able to meet you. No problem, Harold. I'll call Fusco. I'm sure he's got nothing better to do. I can't go back to the consulate. My father, he'll make me play host to the Brazilian president. I should be out there finding the bastard who killed my friend. That's for the police, Sofia, not you. You know, that night, Gabi didn't even want to come out. She came out because I said we had to. We just had to. It's not your fault. You were at the wrong place at the wrong time. They're all the wrong places. I've been lost for so long. I thought maybe if I kept looking, I might find somewhere that made me feel happy. I never thought anyone would get hurt. I've spent some time feeling lost. What changed? Someone found me, told me I needed a purpose. Sounds like a good friend. He is. Come on. Detective Fusco will be looking after you at your father's party tonight, Sofia. Yeah. I get it. I'm not as tall as him, maybe not as fast. Go ahead, make fun of me. I can take it. You look like my uncle Jacobo. We call him the garanhao. What's that supposed to mean? Stud. He has great luck with the ladies. Don't let her out of your sight. What's this, my first trip to the rodeo? So you like falafel? I got an ID on your mystery man from the video. Gang unit ID'd Montgomery Spencer, AKA Monty. Record for assault and possession with intent. What's his connection to Paul Romano? That's what doesn't check out for me. Up until six months ago, Romano was selling small amounts of club drugs to his friends, but word is Paul started moving huge quantities of designer drugs. Maybe if Monty was his supplier, Paul tried to renegotiate his end. I'd say the negotiations - didn't go his way. - Maybe. I still don't understand how these two wind up in bed together. Monty might have had the hookup to the supplier, and Romano the client base, but neither of them had the money to bankroll it. So they had a silent partner. I don't know, but I got an address to the bar where Monty and his pals like to spend some time in. Figured we'd go and ask him in person. Thanks, Carter. Isn't that your daughter? Sofia, where have you been? Is everything okay? It's okay. I just-- Come. An old friend from Brazil wants to say hello. - This is my daughter, Sofia. - Hi. _ You know, you don't write. You don't call. I mean, I'm a big guy, but I am sensitive. It's good to talk to you too, Detective. Is our friend safe? A target-rich environment. Lots of people. That's why I've accessed the museum's security cameras, and having seen the kitchen, I'd advise you to stay away from the shrimp puffs. - Why don't you wait in the car? - Why don't you wait in the car? - Give me 3 1/2 minutes. - Oh, please. There are at least ten guys in there. Okay, four minutes. Thank you for the fine hospitality you have shown my country's distinguished president. Since he is here, I think it's time to announce that I will be running for the Brazilian presidency this year. You okay? I just want a moment alone. I'll be right on the other side of this door. Sorry, I'm at the party. Come meet me. Uh, I don't know. You promised me tonight. I-I don't know if I can get out. You don't have to. I'm right outside. I got bored sitting in the car, and it took you longer than four minutes. Well, this guy hit me over the head with a neon sign. Not very sportsmanlike, and none of them want to tell me where to find their pal Monty. Yeah, that's why you should ask them before you knock them out, John. Mr. Reese, there was another man at Paul Romano's penthouse that night, Sofia's boyfriend Jack Hughes. He's the bankroller. Fusco's with Sofia. Let him know. Detective Fusco? Where is Sofia? Powdering her nose. No, she isn't. I'm afraid you're in the wrong place, Mr. Reese. Taxi! I'm really sorry about this, babe. Sorry? I don't understand. Sorry, babe. Why? Times are tough. I ran through my trust fund and needed money. Monty had the product. I hooked him up with Paul to move it, but Paul got greedy. You had Paul killed. No, Monty gave Paul a choice-- give us the money, or go out the window. Did Monty give you a choice? You or me? Something like that. Sorry, baby. You're just a beautiful loose end. Give me your phone, now. Say it in Russian. Now Italian. Did you send or show this to anyone? Good. Okay, bozo, show's over. Come on, darling. Get out of the car. I'm just gonna find her again after I shoot you. Are you kidding? Look at you. What do you think, you're gonna outrun me? Let me mull that over a sec. Yep, I'm pretty sure I can outrun ya. Thanks, Carter. Are you hurt? I'm fine. Did you find Jack? Not yet. The 11:00 flight. To the Caymans, that's right. Oh, God! Ahh! Okay, it was Monty. I swear. He's unleashed, okay? He was the one who wanted to tie up the loose ends, not me. Paul was never even supposed to die. Oh! Please. What do you want from me? Is this a shakedown? No. This is a breakup. Sofia, should I drop him? Oh, my God! Not yet. You killed my only friend. That was so not my idea, baby. Just like selling me out to Monty wasn't your idea? I told you he gave me a choice, you or me. You have him. I knew you'd be okay. I will be okay.  She was made to blow you away   she don't care   what any man say  Get in. That was fulfilling. - Thank you. - No problem. Have you thought about what you'll do next? I will be returning to Brazil with my father for the election. Guess I can't talk you into relocating? New York's my home for now. You've taken very good care of me. Night. Detective Carter, did you call the CIA regarding Mark Snow? I called his cell, yes. You had contact with Mark Snow. Last I checked, Snow was yours to keep tabs on, not mine. You lose him? I'd say talk to his partner Evans, except the guy was found dead in a hotel five weeks ago. Think I've done enough of your job for you. Now, if you'll excuse me.  her eyes   they're rubies and pearls   she's not made  Dropped by the morgue. Got something off Corwin's body. Is it what we thought? Took a preliminary look at it. I think we have a big problem. How soon can you get here?  She was made   to blow you away   she don't care  Corwin's dead. Not sure you're the best judge of that, Mark. I mean, you thought I was dead too. Always been a bit of an optimist. You wanna know who told her to send you and your pal Reese to China, you'll have to ask her really loudly. Shame. Guess you'll have to run a few more errands for me. I gotta tell ya, our line of work, you meet a lot of disturbed people, but you, Kara? You were always in a class all by yourself. Be careful. Wouldn't wanna hurt my feelings. I might forget you down here.  Her lashes flap   and they smack men back   like springs bouncing off of her curls   oh, yeah   she's long   long gone  It's time we went for that beer. I need to wrap things up here. Things here can wait. Does it have to be beer? Stay tuned for scenes from our next episode.
You are being watched. The government has a secret system a machine that spies on you every hour of every day. I designed the machine to detect acts of terror, but it sees everything violent crimes involving ordinary people. The government considers these people irrelevant. We don't. Hunted by the authorities, we work in secret. You will never find us. But victim or perpetrator, if your number's up, we'll find you. Back in the day, people understood things like respect, loyalty, honor. Those days are gone. So what do you want to do? Only one thing to do. Take care of it. Have you located our quarry, Mr. Reese? I have. At a place called Grand. Good choice. You know it? Haven't been back since they renovated, but the old Grand served one mean rib eye. So our guy has expensive taste, huh? The man he works for certainly does. George Massey owns several local establishments, but he's better known for his less reputable enterprises, including loan sharking, money laundering, extortion. Good to know the Irish mob is still alive and kicking. I suppose if the city's gonna have organized criminals, they should at least be diverse. Massey runs his businesses with his son Eddie. And our guy? Riley Cavanaugh. No living family and no education past high school. The only job he seems to have held is driving a truck for a company owned by Massey. Appears to have been an associate of Massey's for several years. What kind of associate? The kind that gets the attention of the machine. I'm going in. - Something happening? - Yeah. Lunch. Did you talk to the owner of that new bar on 35th? We were gonna drop by later today. Good. Let me know if I need to get involved. _ What's this? Trying to take my job? Sorry. You looked busy. Your server will be with you shortly. Unless you want his job too. Yours will do for now. How's your lunch, George? Everything okay? Oh, Al, it's great. I can't even remember what the old place looks like. Neighborhood's changed. Have to keep up with the times, as they say. Yeah, some things do change. But some don't. For instance, you and me. I know I'm behind, George, but just give me-- Behind? You're a little more than behind. We were down for three months with the remodel, and people aren't going out to eat like they used to. Yeah, I know. I know. Well, here's the thing. You can spend all your money on your fancy fixtures and your wallpaper as long as you keep paper in my pocket. Understand? Yeah. Yeah, I understand. Good. Because, uh, next time I'm not gonna be the one who's stopping by. It'll be me. And I won't be here for lunch. Looks like our associate is Massey's enforcer. And by "enforcer," you mean he's our perpetrator? Annie, hang on. Come here. Hey. What's going on? You don't say hello anymore? Sorry, George, I'm kind of busy. You know, I've been thinking a lot about you lately. Yeah? Should I be flattered or scared? Come on. I just wanna know how you're doing. You know? Whether or not you've found somebody to fend off those cold nights yet. Why? You offering, George? 'Cause now I'm really scared. Hey, I'm a married man. You gotta be more respectful. And I'm the widow of one of your guys, in case you forgot. - So back at ya, George. - Hey. What happened to Sean was tragic, but he's the one that made his bed with the Russians, not me. I thought he worked for you George. Yeah, but his debts were his own. He was a degenerate gambler, and it got him killed. You had better learn to accept that, Annie. I do, but I also remember that Sean was the sweetest guy in the world until the day he started working for you. So degenerate or not, I'll always miss him. I wonder who's gonna miss you when you're gone, George. You take care, Annie. Let's get the hell outta this dump. And who on earth was that young lady? The hostess. Got some brass. Just served George more than his lunch. Give me five minutes. They're cautious. They check their phones at the bar before talking business in the back. Actually, that may help us. If the phones are close together, I can use Riley's as a host to get up on the other ones. Still need ears in that back office. What do you suggest? Improvising. Hey, what the hell is wrong with you? Right now, that look on your face. Nothing another drink won't fix. Get him outta here. Were you successful, Mr. Reese? I'll know in a minute. This thing with Annie. - Forget about it, pop. - Forget about it? You heard the way she spoke to me today. Bringing up that idiot husband of hers in public. Used to be people had some respect. Part of that was knowing when to keep your mouth shut. Maybe I should pay her a visit. Why? You got some special way of getting through to her? I can tell her to drop the subject. Does she look like the type who would drop anything? I don't know, pop, Riley can be pretty persuasive. Okay. You go up there. See her tonight. Okay. But not to shut her up. To make her disappear. I don't know, boss. Don't know? Don't know what? She's the widow of one of the boys. Might hurt morale. Morale? Whose morale are you worried about? Theirs? Or mine? Okay, boss. I'll take care of it. Okay. See that you do. Take Eddie. Use the Pearl. Don't leave a trace. Finch, our enforcer is going after the girl from the restaurant. The hostess? Annie? She just became his next target, and he just became mine. Mr. Reese, I assume I don't need to remind you these are dangerous men you're following. I've taken all precautions, Finch. You find anything on Annie? Yes, her name is Anne Delaney, born and raised in Brooklyn. She was widowed nine months ago when her husband Sean Delaney was found shot to death in Brighton Beach. That was Russian territory then before Elias took it all over. Not the place to be if you're one of George's crew. You have an address for her? You're headed in that direction. So how do you want to do this? Quietly. Yeah, but how? The old man said no trace. I'll handle it. You just keep an eye out and be ready to help with the body. Are you hearing this, Mr. Reese? Don't worry, Finch. I'll make sure they don't get anywhere near her. Someone's calling Riley. No, it's George calling Eddie. - Yeah? - Don't talk, just listen. Before you do that thing tonight, I want you to handle that other business that we talked about. - Riley. - You sure? You heard him today, Eddie. I gave him a chance to come clean, he didn't take it. I can't trust him anymore. So he goes. Then the girl. Now can you handle this, or do I need to? No, no. I got it. Good. Call me when it's done. What's up? Nothing, the old man was just checking in. You know how he gets. Yeah, I do. We may have this one wrong, Finch. Riley might be the victim after all, but I think I'm too late. Too late? What do you mean, Mr. Reese? What was that? Hang on, Finch. Mr. Reese, he's calling Annie. Hello? - Hey, it's me. - Hey. You okay? You sound stressed. I'm fine. Annie, listen. Something's gone wrong. George-- he must have found out about you and me. What? Are you sure? Yeah. Pretty sure. I just had to kill Eddie. Oh, my God. Annie, it's gonna be all right. All right? You just killed George Massey's son. Just listen, Annie. Please, just go to our place and wait. I'm gonna make a quick stop, and then I'll be there. Okay? Annie. Okay. I love you. I love you too. Did I just hear that right? Our enforcer is in love with the woman he was sent to kill? Yeah. Which means we now have two people to protect, Finch. Mr. Reese, has Riley met up with Annie yet? Not yet. There must be some other way to locate her. Maybe, but George will be gunning for both of them. Yes, but Annie is the innocent victim in this equation. Are you saying we should protect Annie but not Riley? I'm just saying you might not want to put yourself and her at risk for a man like that. He's a killer, Mr. Reese. So was I, Finch. I think there's a distinction to be made. Not as much as you think. Well, he's a desperate man running out of time, and George won't be the only one after him. The police will be looking for Eddie's killer as well. Guess it's time to put our two detectives to work. - Carter. - Morning, Detective. No, not until I've had my morning coffee. - You can take it with you. - Take it where? I'm sending you the location. Why? What's there? Shows his face, we'll take him out. Absolutely. A body. Finch, George's men are already at Riley's apartment building. He must know about Eddie. Which means they'll be looking for Annie too. We need to make sure she's not at her place. Finch? I can call Fusco. No, that's all right. Yes, I'll call you when I get there. It's okay. I'll be fine. See if you can put a rush on those plates. Sure. If they're in the system, I want to know as soon as you do. - All right. - You got it. Detective Szymanski. It's good to see you back on active duty. You know, I thought about dying, but I realized I couldn't afford it on a detective's salary. What are you doing here? Heard there was a body. Already? Homicide task force doesn't mess around. - What you got? - It's a car wreck. The deceased is Eddie Massey. Not good. I hear his dad's got a temper. Eddie have too much to drink? Under the influence, yes, but not alcohol, hollow points. Two in the side, close range. Well, his weapon's still holstered. Shooter must have taken him by surprise. - His passenger? - Sounds right, airbag deployed. Only goes off if someone's riding shotgun, or in this case, .38 caliber. Well, if the shooter was in the car, Eddie probably knew who he was. Let's see what we got here. Received a call from a blocked number early this morning, and then after that, several missed calls. - Somebody's looking for him. - Probably his dad. Yup. Annie's already gone. Anything to tell us where she went? Finch? I'm looking. I'm looking. Any luck? Nothing yet. If they've got a secret meeting place, she's hidden it well. Oh, of course. Well, just don't get caught hanging around. I don't intend to. Did you reach our detectives? I got them both on the job. Detective Szymanski. George, this is Detective Carter. I heard about the incident you had a few months ago. Feared we might have lost you. George, I'm afraid I've got some bad news. Eddie's dead. I'm aware. You don't seem too upset about the news. We all deal with grief differently, Detective. Mm. How are you dealing with yours? Find my son's killer, and you'll see. George, when was the last time you saw Eddie? Yesterday. We had lunch, came back here. Any idea what he was doing out so late last night or with whom? Couldn't say. He received a call shortly before the crash. Was it from you? You know, instead of badgering me, shouldn't you be out there trying to find out who killed my son? Where's your crew? My what? Well, your son was just gunned down, maybe by a rival gang. I'd expect you to have some protection. - I can take care of myself. - I'm sure. Or you already know who the shooter is, and your boys are out looking for him. Rest assured, Detective, if I find the person responsible for Eddie's murder, you'll never know. Yep. Merry Christmas. God bless you. Check in with everybody. They'll show up. When they do, I want to know. Mr. Reese, I may have found something. That's good, Finch, because I may have lost something. Annie was very careful not to leave any clues as to her and Riley's meeting place, but maybe there is one. Her laptop wallpaper is a view of the city from a photo she took. Okay. By measuring the alignment and relative size of the key buildings in the photo, I was able to determine the geographical coordinates of the spot where it was taken, approximately 50 feet above sea level. Great, now does any of that voodoo produce an address? And it's trigonometry. How do we know that has anything to do with Riley? Because his first known address. It's where he grew up. So he brought her home. It's only four blocks away from you. How did George find out? It doesn't matter, we gotta go. I gotta get you on a train and as far away from here as possible, Annie. - Me? - Yes. You mean us. I'm not leaving without you. Annie. You said you wanted out of the city. You said we'd find some wide open place out west and start over together. They're looking for me. It's too dangerous. I won't do this without you. I can't. Yes, you can, Annie. Now listen, okay? - I'm gonna-- Annie. - No, no! You listen to me. After Sean died, you came by the restaurant. You gave me your number, and you said if I ever needed anything, to just call, you remember? Yeah. And then my water heater broke. Just exploded, water everywhere. Yeah, and you called. I didn't think you'd even remember, but you said you'd be right there, and you were. Of course you were next to useless, splashing around in water up to your ankles. Loosening this, tightening that. Hey. But you came. You kept your promise, just like you did every time after that. You were there. I love that. Knowing I can count on you, I need to know that. So I don't care who knows or how dangerous it is. I'm not going anywhere without you, not ever. Okay? - Okay? - Okay. - Let's get going. - Okay. - What's in there? - Savings. It's enough money to get us wherever we need to go. No. No, no, no, no, no, no! Not what you were expecting? George. You didn't know I knew about your stash, huh, or the fact that you were sticking it to Sean's old lady? What do you want? How about my son back? I'm sorry, George, but Eddie didn't give me a choice. Well, you can apologize to him yourself in a moment or two. Get down! - Mr. Reese? - Come on! Finch, George's men tried to ambush them. Riley's with Annie on the run. Do be careful, Mr. Reese. Thanks for the tip, Finch. Mr. Reese, is everything all right? I'll survive. - What about Annie and Riley? - I'm not sure. Prints taken off Eddie's car belong to Riley Cavanaugh, one of Massey's top enforcers. Oh, no wonder George wasn't sweating. He was looking for one of his own. One of the building tenants said she saw a guy matching Cavanaugh's description, leaving the building with a woman, could be a hostage. What do we know about him? He's a suspect in three mob-related hits over the past two years. He's a stone-cold killer. We gotta find him, take him down. Szymanski. Yeah, we got it. Okay. That's the stuff. - Happy Birthday. - How did you know? Reconsidering your decision to protect Riley? No, just thinking I should grab a new shirt. He shot you, John. It wasn't personal. Maybe we should focus on the more pressing issue of finding them. Yes, Detective? Your partner, Mr. Tall, Dark, and Fearsome - really got Massey steamed. - Meaning what? Meaning he put a bounty on Cavanaugh and the broad. - How much? - A million. Keep me informed. If Detective Fusco is correct, Annie and Riley will have every hired gun in the city looking for them. George is too small of a fish to pull off a move like this. He'll need to get the word out city-wide. And who would he reach out to for that kind of help? See what you can do. Where are you going? George took the money Riley was gonna use to start over. He'll need to get more before they leave town. I think I know where they might go. Hello, Carter. Riley Cavanaugh? That's who you're protecting? He's protecting an innocent woman. Why didn't you tell me this earlier? Because I needed you to question George Massey. You mean distract him. - What about the woman? - Annie Delaney. Right now, Riley's her best protection. Yeah, well, Szymanski's also looking to take this guy down. Which is exactly why I need you to stay with him, to make sure that doesn't happen. You want me to derail a homicide investigation. Anything else? I'll be in touch. This is all I have on hand. I can go to the bank if you need more. No, Al. This is great. I'll pay you back every cent, I promise. Annie, some men came by earlier, George's men, asking for you. What did you say? The truth. I hadn't seen you. I don't know how to thank you, Al, everything you've done for me. Annie, are you sure you're okay? Yeah, don't worry. And thank you. Finch, someone's trying to collect the bounty on Riley and Annie. We gotta go! Wrong way, guys. Finch, I found Riley and Annie, and so have the bounty hunters. Any luck with our old friend? I'll have an answer for you shortly. Open the gate. You guys can go. So I'm afraid you have me at a disadvantage, Mr. Crane, is it? You obviously know something about me, but I know nothing about you. The man I work with saved the life of someone close to you, Charlie Burton. So you're the boss. I suppose I, uh-- I should thank you for saving my life, as well as my current accommodations. I trust you're keeping yourself busy, Mr. Elias. Certainly your control of the city's criminal enterprises appears undiminished. Well, being stripped of all possessions eliminates a lot of distractions. I've got time to read, to think, to play chess. Though, you know, finding a worthy opponent has been a little challenging. What brings you to see me? We need help with a minor boss whose organization may not be under your control yet. George Massey. I heard about his son. - Our friend John's handiwork? - No, one of his own men. Fallen under our protection now. Massey's put a million-dollar bounty on him and the woman he's with. Ah, yes. So flashy. Relics like Massey, they never learn. There's so much more to be gained by staying out of the limelight, in the background. Those are the people you have to watch out for. Indeed. We thought he might reach out to such a man for help. If so, we hoped we could convince you to withhold your assistance. So you want me to shut down Massey's little hunting party? Well, I suppose I do owe you something for saving my life. Even so, everything does come with a cost. I assumed there would be. What is it you want? Well, as I said, I have no need of possessions. Will be leaving from track 35 in approximately five minutes. I'm gonna go get some tickets, okay? - I'll go with you. - No. Just stay here. - Mr. Reese? - Go ahead, Finch. I believe our bounty hunter problem has been neutralized. You actually got Elias to help us out? Yes, he's made George's bounty forbidden fruit. Anyone going after it will have to answer to him. As a reminder, please do not leave your bags-- Looks like someone didn't get the message, Finch, and he's still gonna try to collect. Over there! Mr. Reese, what's happening? One of the bounty hunters is going after Riley. Did he get to him? No, the bounty hunter took Annie. She's gone. Follow me! Mr. Reese, where are you? Following Riley. Police spotted him. But I thought you said that Annie had been taken! I did. Then why are you wasting time on Riley? He's a killer. He's just bad code. - Bad what? - Forget it. Everything Riley's done so far is to protect Annie. The bounty hunter still has to deliver her to George, so that's where Riley's headed. Yes, Detective? Yeah, Massey's on the move. Do you know where he was headed? No, he must have slipped out the back. Okay, call me if he returns. Who the hell are you? Someone who knows what you're up against. Yeah? What do you know? I know you shot Eddie to save Annie. And I know you've been protecting her since her husband was killed. Russians, right? That's right. Strange they'd kill him when he still owed them so much money and then leave his body in their own territory. It's very strange, unless maybe the Russians didn't kill Sean. Maybe it was someone else, someone who wanted to make it look like they did. A professional. Someone like you. Sean was skimming to pay back the Russians. George caught him and had him whacked. George had him killed, but the hit-- it was you. After Sean, George had me keep tabs on Annie. He had a thing for her. He also wanted to make sure she didn't ask too many questions. But you fell for her instead, and George found out. Annie doesn't deserve any of this. She just wants to get away from here and start over. But she doesn't know about Sean. Do you really think you can run away from that? No. I know what I am. But I also know that she's the best thing that's ever happened to me, and I will do whatever I gotta do to save her. Well, if you go charging in at George half-cocked, you'll be dead before you can even do her any good. Come on, we need to move. Come on. It's a dead end. What now? We consider our options. Shooting at cops isn't one of them. You got a better idea, let's hear it. Excuse me. - Yes. - Carter. How's it going, Detective? Szymanski's got a dragnet out for your hit man. I suggest you steer clear for a while. Well, that's gonna be a little difficult. Don't tell me you're with him. Okay, I won't, but I still need your help. John, this guy killed Eddie Massey. Eddie was gonna kill him and an innocent woman. Well, I'm sure the DA will take that into consideration. This isn't about helping Riley, it's about saving Annie. Look, if I'm wrong I'll turn him in to you myself. I got a tip! One of my CIs saw Cavanaugh over near 43rd and 10th. - Call it in. Come on. - Let's go. We got a sighting at 43rd and 10th. You got a detective in your pocket? More like on my back. Suspect reported near 43rd and 10th. Let's go. Finch, I've got Riley. We're going to get Annie. Well, you won't find her at George's pub. Detective Fusco said he left in a hurry. Where would George take Annie? - The Pearl. - The what? The Emerald Pearl's a nightclub that George owned. It went under, but he kept it for-- uh, for other business. Like making bodies disappear. You know this place? - Yeah. - Let's go. What about her boyfriend? Last I saw, he was running for the door. Why am I not surprised? That's okay. I'm gonna catch up with that coward soon enough. So I suppose I'll be taking my money now. The million was for the both of them. I'll settle for half, unless you think that's unreasonable. What the hell, I'm in a good mood. Corey, get this guy his money. Hey, what do you think you're doing? Bringing your boss a present. I believe I'm due a reward. You know that none of this needed to happen, right? I wanted to help you, Annie. And what did I get? Gratitude? No. Insults! Blame for Sean. Oh, to tell the truth, you were right on that score. You see, Sean was not only a degenerate gambler, he was also a thief. I gave him what he deserved. And you call Riley a coward. Riley. Yeah. Did Riley ever tell you--? No, of course not. Tell me what? What really happened to Sean. Let her go, George. Well, look at that. Anybody moves, I'm shooting you first. Hey, good to see you, kid. Yeah, you know, you just saved me 500 grand. Are you okay, Annie? Oh, she's fine. We were just having a little conversation about Sean. Let her go, George. - Don't. - He can't shoot both of us. He won't have to. Take Annie, go for the kitchen, I'll cover you. No! You're closer. Get her out of here. Aah! Go! Take care of Annie! - We have to move. - I'm not leaving without Riley. Annie, go. Go, it's okay. I will be right there. Go! I never should have sent Eddie. I should have killed you myself. She was right, you know. No one's gonna miss either one of us. Riley? - We can't leave him. - I'm not. Get her out of here. Annie, Riley had this on him. Just the one? So he wasn't coming after all. He knew you'd always be looking over your shoulder if he did. I was fooling myself to think I could change him. But you did. You gave him the strength to walk away from the only life he knew, to be better. He said you were the best thing that ever happened to him. Thank you. Good luck.  Once I wanted to be   the greatest  Where's she headed? - New Mexico. - A wide open place. Earlier, what did you mean when you said, "bad code"? It means a flawed design. The term applies to machines, not to people. We have the ability to change, evolve. Even killers. So you never did tell me what Elias wanted for calling off the bounty.  Grace   just in your honor   Once I wanted to be   the greatest, the greatest the greatest, the greatest   two fists of solid rock   with brains that could explain   any feeling  You can have the money. I'm not here for the money.  The greatest  Stay tuned for scenes from our next episode.
You are being watched. The government has a secret system-- a machine that spies on you every hour of every day. I designed the machine to detect acts of terror, but it sees everything Violent crimes involving ordinary people. The government considers these people irrelevant. We don't. Hunted by the authorities, we work in secret. You will never find us. But victim or perpetrator, if your number's up, we'll find you. The mayor's office is up for grabs, and City Councilman Ed Griffin threw his hat in the ring today. New candidate in the race for mayor-- Assistant DA Landon Walker. This thing is a bloodbath. Griffin and Walker are neck and neck. Yeah, I hear that's about to change. That reporter, Maxine Angelis, she says one of Griffin's money men has been cooking the books. Who the hell are you? I'm the person who's not telling your wife that you're in a hotel room waiting for a hooker. Your office wasn't returning my calls, Mr. Hix, so I thought I'd reach out to you personally. Maxine Angelis, New York Journal. This little game cuts both ways. What will your readers think when they find out you get your stories using blackmail? They'll think I'm good at my job. In the next five days, New York elects a new mayor, and I'm very curious about the illegal fundraising you've done for Ed Griffin's campaign. Give me straight answers, and I'll be kind enough to omit the circumstances of our interview. What is it you wanna know? You've raised over $100,000 for Griffin. I can see why Maxine keeps making headlines. Investigative journalists like Ms. Angelis are an endangered species. In order to keep up with bloggers and social media, dedicated reporters have to be increasingly creative to get the truth. Finch Is that feedback? No, I simply made the grievous error of buying Bear a squeaky toy. In the six years she's worked at the Journal, she's penned exposes on New York's most dangerous criminals. The cartel, Elias, HR. She's made some very powerful enemies. Odds are one of Maxine's stories is about to get her killed. Okay, I got what I need. Thank you for your time, Mr. Hix. Oh, and tell your wife I said hi. Max, remember how you thought HR had a lot more dirty cops out there? You were right. The feds are indicting dozens of NYPD officers. On my way. FBI. You're under arrest. You two, out of the car. You have the right to remain silent. They're making the bust, but I know this was you. Nice work, Detective. Keep your voice down, huh, Carter? You think John put me under with HR because of my spotless record? Glad the feds haven't come after me yet. The day is still young, Fusco. Agent Donnelly, big day for you. Thanks, Carter. And, uh, don't think I've forgotten about your man in the suit. We will catch him as soon as we're done with this. Looks pretty done to me. Over 75 dirty cops in bracelets. So why aren't you smiling? Oh. You don't have the big boss, do you? Head of HR. So got a particular cop in mind? I'm not so sure it is a cop. If the lead I'm working pans out, soon I'll know exactly who was running things. Hey, Carter. My two cents-- let this one go, okay? Every crook HR screwed over, every cartel they were in bed with, they're all gonna want the big boss dead. Whoever catches that guy better be bulletproof. Is it weird that that just makes me wanna catch him more? For you? No. Hey, kiddo, it's dad. Remember, I'm picking you up from school today, so don't take the bus. And think about what movie you wanna watch tonight. All right? I'll call you later. Hello, Lionel. Look, Simmons, I didn't-- Spare me whatever steaming pot you're about to serve up. I saw you. The day the FBI got into HR, I saw you helping that guy in the suit. You know what even crossed my mind? You might be the rat who tried to take us down. But you wouldn't be that stupid, now would you, Lionel? - No. - Good. 'Cause HR might be down, but we are not out. My boss is pulling strings right now to save the upper management. With friends like that, what do you need me for? Because the FBI keeps digging. We got word that they're onto something that could still bring us all down-- me, my boss. Probably even you. What do they got? Why don't you tell me? Your partner's all buddy-buddy with Donnelly. So you're gonna find out what they're looking for, and you're gonna make it disappear. And if I don't? Well, I guess I'll see you in prison. I mean, what's your kid gonna think when he finds out what you did? You think your ex-wife's even gonna let you see him again? I mean, you need this to go away as bad as we do. Push comes to shove, who's got your back here? That goody-two-shoes partner of yours or me? Just do this one thing for us, Lionel. Then if you want out, you're out. So, Quinn, what brings you out of campaign HQ? My boss' screaming mostly. You've made this a very tough day for me. Well, when you sign on as campaign manager for a crook like Ed Griffin, you gotta expect a few tough days. Sorry. I'll survive. Politicians come and go, but you and I are here forever. Right, Max? Off the record, it's not Griffin's year. Walker's ahead, and I can't find any dirt to save my life. Oh, come on, the cleaner they are on the outside, the more rotten they are once you crack them open. I actually came by just to warn you. Griffin wants your head on a pike. Well, tell him to get in line. You hear that, Finch? Edward Griffin, our newest suspect but likely not our last. Oh, Bear, please. Look, here's your ball. I should have access to Maxine's cloud storage site shortly. Once I get inside, I'll scan through everything she's working on, see who else might want her dead. That's not the real story, Glen. The hell it's not. The story's not who they busted, it's who they didn't. The head of HR. The FBI knows they don't have the big boss. And now they're just scooping up everybody, hoping they'll catch him if they cast a wide enough net. Wanna write about the big boss? Fine. Get me a name and something to back it up. Until then, there's nothing to print. So she's looking for the head of HR. Should we be looking at Simmons? Actually, my analysis of the evidence from Detective Fusco suggests that Simmons is just a high-ranking lieutenant. Then who's really in charge? Someone's dialing Maxine's cell. Number blocked, no ID. Maxine Angelis. I can't tell you my name, but I have information you want. Okay, what is that exactly? HR's big boss-- I know who it is All right, I'm listening. The head of HR is Christopher Zambrano. They're arresting him tonight. - Who is this? - A friend. Christopher Zambrano, son of the late mafia don, whom I'm sure you will remember. But unlike his father, Christopher seems to have kept his nose clean. Which would make him a good liaison between the mob and the police. He owns an import-export business. Perfect cover for the kind of smuggling operations that have lined HR's pockets. And now she's calling one of her contacts in the FBI. - Agent Clark. - Willis. Maxine Angelis. So remember when you led that meth lab raid and accidentally busted into the wrong house, and I left your name out of the paper, and you said you didn't know how to thank me? Well, I just thought of a way. What do you want, Maxine? What do you know about the HR investigation? I just got a tip that Christopher Zambrano is the boss of the whole operation. Okay, this is deep, deep background. But, uh, yeah, I know they're looking at him in connection with HR. And when Donnelly was putting in paperwork for the indictments, I heard him talking about Zambrano a lot. Okay. Well, thanks, Willis. I'll keep your name out of this story too. Sounds like she's really onto something. We definitely need to check out Zambrano. I think Maxine might beat me to it. Mr. Zambrano. Maxine Angelis, New York Journal. Nice to meet you. Get off my property. Why? Do you have something to hide from a reporter? Got eyes and ears on Zambrano, Finch. Search all you want. All you're gonna find is imported furniture, parts of a kiddie carousel, which I bought for charity. Does that make it into the papers? No. Because my last name is Zambrano, you guys all think I'm a wise guy. No, I think you're the head of HR. What the hell are you talking about? Who told you that? I think you know exactly what I'm talking about. Did you get a visit recently from Agent Donnelly? Never seen him before. Funny, 'cause the guard at the gate has seen him here, arguing with you. Son of a mafia don, owner of an import-export business, getting grilled by the FBI agent hunting HR. So if you're not involved, then how would you explain that? Shut your mouth. I don't know anything about that, okay? And if you keep on asking questions like this, somebody's gonna get hurt. I don't like this, Finch. I'm going in. Reese, you can't. Maxine has another pet story. She's been scouring through police records, talking to witnesses, hunting for a man in a suit meaning you. We're fugitives getting illegal information from a secret government machine. John, the last thing we need is publicity. You must protect Ms. Angelis, but you have to do it without giving her any more proof that the man in the suit exists. Do you expect me to believe you're gonna lay a finger on me at your legitimate business? - You don't print that. - Mr. Zambrano. You don't write that. "Suspected HR boss assaults reporter." Do you think that headline makes you look less guilty? Hey, Teddy, escort this bitch off my property. Okay, Finch. How am I supposed to save a woman who wants to put me on the front page? Despite this complication, we must focus on keeping Maxine safe. I can't find anything in Zambrano's digital footprint to suggest that he's the head of HR, but brilliant criminals have fooled us before. I do wish you wouldn't do that here. When I do it in the park, people look at me funny. Okay, let's assume that Zambrano is the head of HR. He might want to have Maxine killed before she can reveal his true identity in the paper. It would be damn hard to stop them if I can't let Maxine see me work. And when you step out of the shadows to help her out, she's going to know you're the man in the suit. Until we can figure out a way to hide you in plain sight, perhaps you should enlist some backup. Maxine Angelis. Yeah, I've heard of her. That woman leaves no stone unturned. How do you expect to work your magic with her around? Aren't you and your friend obsessed with staying out of the paper? I'll keep my distance. The other photo I sent you is Chris Zambrano. Maxine thinks he's HR's big boss. So he's crooked like his dad, huh? Everything okay, Fusco? Yeah. It's, uh something I ate probably. Yeah, well, you don't become head of HR by being sloppy. So if Zambrano wants your reporter dead, he'll do it in a way that's practically invisible with no strings leading back to him. Fusco, when's the last time you saw your pal Simmons? Um we haven't talked since I shot at him, covering your ass. Find him. Tail him. And if he gives you any trouble, I've got your back. I'll talk to Donnelly, see who else is on HR's payroll that hasn't been arrested yet. And if your reporter friend gets into trouble before we find the shooter-- Guess I'll have to call the police. And though I'm unaware of any wrong-doing, the funds in question will be donated to charity. That's Ed Griffin issuing a statement about allegations in the New York Journal. Landon Walker is in our studio. Mr. Walker, your response. You see, Bob, hiding the evidence doesn't erase the crime. This is what my opponent doesn't get. Look at what she started. If I'm elected, I'll bring honesty and integrity back to the city. Turning our attention from politics to the weather-- I got him, Glen. The head of HR. Christopher Zambrano. The mafia don's kid? Based on what? Four sources, anonymous tip, guard at the docks, an FBI agent familiar with the case, and Zambrano himself. He admitted it to you? I don't think he was yelling at me 'cause he's innocent. I hear Donnelly's already filed the indictment. We'll run it on the website and back-edit it once the feds pick him up. Well, the cat's out of the bag, but Ms. Angelis is not out of danger yet. Zambrano may order her execution for simple revenge. She's not safe until he's behind bars. Finch, I can't protect her like this. I've got to get close to her. Oh, you're about to. It seems that Maxine's job doesn't afford her opportunities to meet nice men, so she somewhat reluctantly signed up with a popular online dating site. I took the liberty of back-engineering the matching algorithm to create the profile of her ideal man. She really likes that you love dogs. Wait. You're trying to get me a date with her? Already have. Tonight at 8:00. You've been flirting all day. Finch? What did I just say to her? New cufflinks I could understand, but buying a $100,000 sports car-- was that really necessary? Relax, Finch. The car's stolen. Nice car. Let's hope you're not compensating for something. Remember, your name is John Anderson VP at Jenson Actuarial. You like walking your dog, kayaking, and Hitchcock movies. Oh, and Maxine's fondness for intellectuals presents us with a graceful way to help cover up your identity. Are you wearing those glasses I got you? - Here you are. - Sure. Enjoy. I, uh-- I called ahead and ordered us a bottle. Hope you like champagne. I don't. Don't you remember joking about this online? Sorry, um, can I get a Boulevardier, please? Did you not review the notes I sent you? So, John I've always wondered. What does an actuarial actually do? Most days, just try to stay awake. Mr. Reese. Wrong answer! Maxine is passionate about her career, and she wants a partner who feels the same way. Okay, time for reinforcements. John. How are you? Zoe. You trying to make me jealous? Finch have you on standby? Social psychology. Women are more attracted to men who receive the approval of other attractive women. Uh, Maxine, this is Zoe. She's a friend. So how do you two know each other? Oh, we spent two very long nights together last year. It was great seeing you again, John. Thanks. You dated Zoe Morgan? Mm-hmm. There's not a reporter in town who wouldn't kill to interview that woman. Science. The tenets of social psychology are firmly rooted in an unders-- So tell me about your job. What's the most exciting story you're working on right now? Oh, you'll just think I'm weird. Okay, well, there's a rumor about this guy. The police just call him the man in a suit. No one's seen his face, no one knows his name. I'm not even sure he exists. But he's like something out of a comic book. When people are in trouble, he comes out of nowhere. He always seems to be there just in time. And whoever he is, he saves a lot of lives. And he shoots a lot of kneecaps. Sounds like a great guy. And an urban legend. Yeah, well, maybe. But if he's real I'm going to put that man on the cover of every magazine and newspaper in this country. What about Christopher Zambrano? I read your website. Ever worry that writing about a man like that might put you in harm's way? Occupational hazard. Still couldn't hurt to skip town for the weekend, let this blow over. Oh, thanks for your concern, John. And for that very slick offer to whisk me away. But, you know, this is what I do. I find out what people need to know, what those in power don't want them to know, and I make sure everyone hears about it. To me, that's worth a little risk. "In times of universal deceit, telling the truth is a revolutionary act." George Orwell. Oh. You know what, I'm sorry. I have to take this. Sorry. Yeah. Glen. Okay, Glen, Glen, Glen. Slow down, slow down! - Kind of busy, Carter. - We have a problem. I just got off the phone with Donnelly, and Maxine's story about Zambrano being the big boss of HR-- it's not true. Oh, my God. Oka-- oh, my God. Zambrano's not the boss? He isn't even a suspect. But then she wrote that thing, she put a bull's-eye on his chest. Every crook HR screwed, every cartel they worked with, everyone wants him dead. Maxine's not in danger, Zambrano is. We need to find him before it's too late. You're wrong, Max. The FBI's on their way. - They wanna talk to you. - Okay, all right. Forget about me. Where is Zambrano? - And is he okay? - He's not answering his cell. No one knows where he is. Work emergency. I'll call you. Okay, well, I don't know what your work emergency is, but I bet mine's worse. I just put Zambrano's life in danger, so I need you to give me a ride. Okay, wait in the car. You're close, Mr. Reese. Zambrano is 300 meters west northwest of you. Guess the FBI doesn't have him bluejacked. Mr. Zambrano! Mr. Zambrano! Chris! Where's Zambrano? Help! Finch. We didn't get here in time. Okay, Ms. Angelis. And Mr. Anderson, was it? Uh, you can call me John. I just need to get a statement. You found Mr. Zambrano, right? He was shot, and he wasn't breathing. It was all my fault. I'm sorry, can I-- I just need a minute. Yeah, sure. You're dating her? That's how you're keeping your distance? It's, um complicated. Your killers are knocked out at the scene. My guess is they're Toreros cartel. Just one of many organizations that wanted HR's boss dead. Just got the wrong guy. Look, this isn't the best place for me to be, but I'm not leaving her. Can I get her out of here? Yeah. Come on. She said we could go. - Some first date, huh? - Maxine Angelis. Special Agent Donnelly, FBI. You're gonna answer some questions. Go, go. The gate guard told me that you'd been arguing with Zambrano and an agent I spoke to-- Agent Clark didn't know anything, but I am really not interested in hearing you try to justify what you did. All I want is the name of the person who first told you that Chris Zambrano was the head of HR. I got a call. It was an anonymous tip. It was a man. Blocked number. That's it. But if he wasn't the boss, then why were you even-- Do you have any idea how colossally you just screwed up? Zambrano wasn't HR's boss. He was the witness that could bring the boss down. Zambrano's father was the mob's point man with HR. And he kept records-- a ledger-- with names and dollar amounts for everyone on HR's payroll, including the boss. And when the don died, Chris Zambrano found that ledger. But unlike his dad, Chris was a good man. Totally clean. When he realized what he was holding, he called the FBI. Why didn't you protect him? What do you think we were arguing about? I tried to convince him. But because of people like you calling him a criminal all his life, Zambrano was afraid that we would think he was dirty too. He'd only turn over the ledger once he'd sign an immunity deal, and the paperwork came through tonight. And if you print one word of this, I will lock your ass up for obstruction. Well, your tip came from a disposable cell, the first choice of criminals and virtually impossible to trace. So congratulations, Ms. Angelis, you just got played, probably by the real head of HR. So Maxine wasn't the victim. She was the perpetrator. Unwitting, involuntary, but a perpetrator all the same. With one stroke, the boss wipes out the only witness who could bring him down and destroys the career of a troublesome reporter to boot. And we're gonna find out who that bastard is and bring him down. And I'll search Zambrano's digital footprint, see if I can find out where he hid the ledger with the boss' name in it. And I'll see what our undercover can dig up. Fusco, you and Simmons need to have a little talk. See if he knows who the real head of HR is. Nah, if Simmons knew that, I would have brought down the boss when we took down HR. Well, ask anyway, and let me know if you find anything out. Will do, boss. All right, Zambrano, where did you hide that ledger? Maxine Angelis. Max? Quinn. How are you? Guess I was due for a tough day. Yeah, look, we're gonna have use this thing to discredit you, everything you wrote about Griffin. We're throwing you under the bus, Max. Sorry. You're a true friend, Quinn. Glen. What can I do? I think we've got it handled. We're moving the election off A1 to make room for our retraction on Zambrano. I can write the retraction. I'm afraid you won't be writing anything until we sit down with legal. Ms. Angelis' future as a journalist may be in doubt, but she's not done investigating. She's calling that disposable cell. You have reached a voice mail box that has not been set up yet. I don't know who you are, but I know what you did, and I know where to find your name. And when I do, I will put a picture of you in handcuffs on the front page of this paper. She's looking for that HR ledger. Then I need to get her to stop before she gets herself in trouble. - Hello? - Maxine, it's John. I thought maybe you could use a drink. I was surprised to hear from you. There's generally no second date when the first one ends in homicide. Well, I was, um thinking about you, and I wanted to see if I could help. Well, now that you mention it, I could use your accounting skills to just go through these records. Here's everything I've got on Zambrano. We're looking for anywhere Zambrano might've-- - I think maybe we should just leave that for the proper authorities. I put getting the scoop before getting the truth. And my arrogance cost a good man his life. Now I can't-- I can't do anything to fix that. But I sure as hell can catch the bastard behind all of this. Thanks for the beer. Maxine. Maxine! I know how it feels to do things you can never take back. I can't stop you from hurting or wanting to fix this. But I just don't want you to think you're alone. - Get down! - Aah! Finch, I think the boss got Maxine's message. Give me your keys. Finch, we're heading to my place. Oh, shoot! I've got your dog. Bear's even cuter than his picture. He really likes that closet, huh? His, uh, treats are in there. So that was interesting. Maybe we should call the cops. Which ones? If HR's boss is still out there, I don't know who to trust. Any idea who was shooting at us? No, but if they're trying to kill me, I must be doing something right. Wow! Guess your boring job pays all right. I'm calling in sick tomorrow. I won't leave your side until this is over. You're a good man, John Anderson. I'll sleep on the couch. Like I said, a good man. And if I wanna take my contacts out? Oh, uh that way. When were you ever going to need all those? You shouldn't have brought her back here, Mr. Reese. Even the best cover just goes so deep. The longer she stays, the more questions she'll have. Imagine how many questions she'll have if she comes out and sees you here. Did you get a good look at the men that were shooting at you? I tried, but they were shooting at me. I'll get into the pub's security system and see what I can find. I've got a lead, Mr. Reese. I got images of the shooters from the pub's security. Then I found a photo sharing site that had a facial recognition app that was shut down by a lawsuit last year. I hacked in, turned the app back on, and identified our gunmen. They're FBI. Ex-FBI. Agents Bogle and Pitt. They took early retirement last year. But if they've still got contacts at the Bureau, I'd guess that they're the ones that told HR's boss about Zambrano's ledger. Finch, I know you want me to keep my cover, but Maxine needs to know what she's dealing with, and I need to be able to protect her. Calm down, John. I sent your girlfriend a text with the same information, anonymously of course. I need to talk to a friend of yours. Leonard Pitt and Craig Bogle, forced out for harassment and malicious prosecution. Word is that they were in someone's pocket. They were using those badges to do favors for their real boss. The man who got Zambrano killed with one call from a disposable cell, the head of HR-- who is he? There's some secrets that even I don't know. But you know who buys disposables by the case-- criminals, sure. But also political campaigns. They're cheap, untraceable, anonymous. And if they get caught playing dirty tricks, it can save their ass. Is this the kind of experience we want running our city? Landon Walker is the responsible, reliable choice for mayor. Zambrano gets killed for knowing the name of HR's boss five days before an election. Are you telling me the boss is running for mayor? I'm rendering an opinion. Personally, I avoid politicians. They so rarely have any real power. You know, it's a pleasure meeting you. But it's a shame we never met. Be good, John. Yes. Okay, perfect. Thank you so much. One of Griffin's old opponents just confirmed being harassed by Bogle and Pitt during their campaign. If Griffin's higher than before, they're probably still working for him. Do you have enough to unmask him on the front page? I will never make that mistake again. I am not going to press until I have that ledger in my hands. We just need to find where Zambrano hid it. Pretty smooth conning me into a third date, by the way. I like to think of it as a third attempt at a first date. Wait. Wait. Zambrano said that everybody thought he was a wise guy, and nobody ever looked at the good things he did. If he were looking for a place to hide that ledger, maybe he would put it where he thought no one would go looking. Does that fancy car of yours have a crowbar? Here. It's unlocked. Start with the horses. They were still being delivered yesterday. Found something. Zambrano's ledger. Wanna find out who's running HR? Thanks, Maxine. My boss has been looking all over for that. I've called Detective Carter, and help is on the way, Mr. Reese. I know it goes against your nature, but you can't take action without Maxine learning who you really are. If at all possible, wait for rescue. I'll try to keep that in mind. I gotta tell you, Maxine, you've been a huge help. First Zambrano, then the ledger, and now you're kind enough to bring your boyfriend. I'm just gonna dump the two of you at your place. We'll make it look like a lover's spat turned murder-suicide. When I wind up dead, you think the police won't find your names in my notes, Agent Bogle? Or is it Mr. Bogle now? And now you're doing a double homicide to shut me up. But when you get caught, will your boss even think twice before killing you to cover his tracks? Who is your boss, by the way? Should we open that ledger and find out? Guess that's a "no comment." NYPD! Drop your weapon! FBI! We're here on official business. Ms. Angelis is a witness in a homicide investigation. Drop your guns! You hear sirens, Pitt? Two NYPD detectives just took a hot door without calling for backup. You're not here on official business either.   Where's Griffin? Where's Griffin? Where's Griffin?     Walker. Dispatch, I need a bus. Got a suspect in custody with a GSW to his shoulder. What did I miss? Nothing you can't read in tomorrow's paper. Excuse me, ma'am. We're gonna need that as evidence. Thank you.   So after that, we've got the fundraiser in midtown, and then we have to get there by 3:00. Can we do that? Yeah? Landon Walker! You're under arrest for receiving bribes, enterprise corruption, and conspiracy. You have the right to remain silent. Whoa, whoa, whoa. Anything you say can and will be used against you in a court of law. _ So you're off the hook. The boss is locked up. Are we done here? Once you're in, you're never out. You want anything else from me never mention my kid again. I'm not a threat to your son, Lionel. You are. No bodies, no bullets. So this is what a normal date with you is like. Nice, isn't it? And I'm afraid it has to be our last. I like you, John. Quite a bit actually. But I'm married to my work. And honestly, I still think you're a little hung up on Zoe Morgan. See ya. So you're off to chase your man in the suit? No, you were right. Urban legend. And with the week I just had, if there really was a man like that, I think I'd have met him by now. Mr. Reese, this may not be over. You're paranoid, Finch. Be that as it may don't think we got the right guy. Walker was on HR's payroll. He'd have motive to want Zambrano dead. Yes, yes, and he definitely hired Pitt and Bogle to hunt down Maxine, but that's what troubles me. The head of HR is brilliant, not the type to hire a pair of washed up feds to gun down a reporter. And Walker-- I'm not convinced he has the cunning or the connections to mastermind something this complicated. All right. If Walker isn't the real head of HR, who is? The people of New York have spoken, and I'm proud to be your next mayor. So you had Walker on the payroll too, huh? Hedging your bets. Smart. Remind me never to cross you, boss. That's why I never put my name on the payroll. Who needs money when you have real power? The politicians come and go, but we'll be here forever. Stay tuned for scenes from our next episode.
You are being watched. The government has a secret system-- a machine that spies on you every hour of every day. I designed the machine to detect acts of terror, but it sees everything Violent crimes involving ordinary people. The government considers these people irrelevant. We don't. Hunted by the authorities, we work in secret. You will never find us. But victim or perpetrator, if your number's up, we'll find you. _ Olivia wants to extend the trial separation another six months. Neither one of us is willing to bring up the D word. When you get married, you think you found the one. I mean, how do you know? I mean, how does anyone know? Well, I'm no authority on these matters. But if you want to take some time off, work things out-- Work's the one thing that keeps my mind off the situation. So tell me, how goes our little experiment? I'm glad you asked. What do you make of that man on the bench? Looks like he tied one on a little too tight. Bet you'd never believe me if I told you he was a violin prodigy who played two years with the Philharmonic. His penchant for the bottle cut his career short. How exactly does this help stop terrorism? Before I could teach the machine to find bad people, I had to teach it people in general. I programmed it to identify outliers Individuals who are interesting in some way. To teach a machine the complexities of human nature-- I mean, no offense, Harold, but is someone as introverted as you the best person for the job? Oh. Who's Molly Cole? I have no idea. student at NYU. Major in astrophysics. Says you were with her last night. So work must not be the only thing that's kept your mind off the separation. So what's your point? You asked me if the machine was capable of learning human nature. I'm saying it already is. It's learning by watching everyone. Even you. Oh, that's odd. What? That woman painting at the railing. Grace Hendricks. Freelance artist. Volunteers at a children's shelter. But beyond that, no anomalies that I can see. Why did it show her to us? Must be a bug. I'll go over the code again, see if I missed something. Hmm. Well, at least the machine is showing us it has good taste. Aah! Bear! What did we discuss about boundaries? Morning, Finch. Impeccable timing, Mr. Reese. I've just begun digging into our latest number. A little stingy on the sprinkles. Graham Wyler. A 42-year-old family man. Owns a small hardware store with his wife in Far Rockaway. The suburbs? Never had a number out there before. Unfortunately, murder isn't confined to a zip code. I'll get eyes on the family. I wouldn't go back to this place. Wyler moved to the city from Fort Wayne, Indiana, in 1997. He's been married to his wife Connie for 14 years. - And the daughter? - Izzy. Honor student at Sandburg Junior High and soccer star. Wyler's mortgage is affordable. His credit is good. Family only owns one car, free and clear. So we found the most boring man in New York. See the black smudges in the air vent? 'Cause your motor's fried. Come back in an hour, and I'll have it fixed for you. Great. How much do I owe you? Just buy your next drill with me, we'll call it even. All right, Saturday's fine. Okay, bye-bye. That was Mrs. Beckett. She just guilted me into helping with the PTA fundraiser. She wouldn't know what to do without you. Neither would I, for that matter. Probably looking for the sharpening kit for his machete. Can I help you, sir? I told you to call before you showed up. You trying to get me busted with my wife? Whatever, man. You want these or not? Yeah, just make it fast, all right? Looks like Wyler might be dealing more than power tools, Finch. - How's practice? - Hi. - Mm. - Mm. We did shuttle runs all day. - Yeah? Sounds like fun. - Yeah. Want to see something? Tickets to Bruce Springsteen? Front row seats, for mom's birthday. Pretty awesome, right? It's kinda lame, dad. Well, how about this, then? No way! You fixed it! Oh, thank you. All right, Finch, this guy's a saint. I'm not so sure. I took a closer look at his employment history. Hard to see how he had the money to move east, much less, support a city lifestyle. Maybe he met a reclusive billionaire? In the event that he didn't, I made a few phone calls around Fort Wayne, claiming to be a genealogist working on a family tree. And I did uncover one record of interest. And what's that? His death certificate. The real Graham Wyler died in 1997. Whoever you've been following stole his identity and has been using it for the past 15 years. He's ghosting. Built a life on a dead man's name. Might be better if we were less concerned with who this man is, and more concerned with who he was. Afternoon. I haven't seen you around here before. You new in town? Passing through, actually. Unfortunately, not fast enough. You're in a no parking zone. Any way you could let me off with a warning? So shall I pay this out of petty cash? Harder to tail someone in the suburbs than in the city. I heard. Your man-in-the-suit routine doesn't exactly play. As it happens, there's a quaint three-bedroom that's just gone on the market across from the Wyler's home. You can move in tomorrow. Move in? You're gonna be neighbors. I also procured a new vehicle, an appropriate wardrobe, and a set of golf clubs. There is one element of your cover that you'll have to acquire on your own. John. I'm sorry to hear that it didn't work out with that reporter Maxine. I'll get over it. I was actually thinking we should spend a little more time together. Is that so? What is it this time? More power players or cover-ups? Not exactly. Zoe Morgan will you be my wife? Remember when you saved me from being tortured and killed by corporate hit men? Consider us even. That mean you don't want me to carry you across the threshold? When this is over, I might have to fight you for custody of the dog. Miss me already, Harold? Actually, I wanted to thank Ms. Morgan for offering her services. Suburban dad with a mysterious secret? How could I resist? Plus, somebody had to see to it that John didn't burn down the block. We'll see what happens. Right now, our main concern is to ID Wyler, figure out who he really is. Any ideas on how to become the Wyler's new best friends? A few. I'll visit Wyler at his store, tell him we just moved across the street. Once we've established contact, we'll be able to manipulate the family into-- John, it's a doorbell. Let's try not to shoot any girl scouts on our first day, okay? Hi. Sorry to bother you. Just wanted to stop by and welcome you to the neighborhood. - I'm Connie Wyler. - Graham. John Campbell. This is my wife Zoe. It's nice to meet you both. I made you guys some Ambrosia. Just bring the dish back anytime. We're right across the street. Mmm. This looks delicious. We're having some people over this afternoon for a barbecue. You should stop by if you're not busy. Well, we'll be there. Great. See you then. That was easy. Oh, thanks. Couldn't help but notice your car earlier. Thing of beauty. How much she set you back? Actually, it's a company car. Man, I must have picked the wrong business. What do you do? I sell private security systems. Homes, offices. You know, if you're interested, I could get you a great deal on some equipment. No thanks. Kind of old-school, low-tech. I reinforced the locks on my doors and windows. That's pretty much all the security you need around here. Sounds like you've got it all figured out. Except how to get people into my store. It's getting harder and harder to keep up with the big box chains. No one appreciates an honest man trying to make a living. I'll drink to that. How long have the two of you been living in Rockaway? Oh, about ten years. Graham and I moved here after my mother got sick, so we came out to help. What about you guys? How did you meet John? Uh, I was, um, stranded in a bad part of town. And he gave me a ride. And we actually spent the rest of the evening running around the city. Oh, you know, John kind of reminds me of Graham, when we first moved out here, kind of restless. Don't worry, he'll calm down. Ooh, another wine cooler? Uh, what about a Manhattan Up? How do you make that? - Come on, I'll show you. - Okay. Dad, have you seen my necklace? No, not since I fixed it. If you cleaned your room once in a millennium-- - I'll keep looking for it. Who do we know in Philadelphia? No one, never been there. Why? This postcard came. Oh, my gosh! He's adorable. Hi! Oh, you're so cute! Who's a good boy? Would you mind manning the grill for a moment? Sure. Wyler's spooked about something. Whatever he's hiding, he kept it from everyone. Connie's in the dark. Let's see if we can shed some light, then. You got a makeup brush? Carter. You think you can run a print for me? You find another bad guy? That's what I'm trying to find out. That guy doesn't look so bad. As for the print, I wouldn't hold your breath. It's a partial. Start with a search in Philadelphia. We're not getting on a plane to Philly, are we? Not at the moment. What now? We wait. Uh, the party never stops when you're around. What do these people do for fun? Beats me. Got any ideas?  Boom boom boom boom   I'm gonna shoot you right down  Suburbs might not be so bad after all. In or out dear? Ever known me to run from a fight? Pair of aces. Two pair.  And walk that walk   and walk that walk  Lemonade, sir? .50. Here you go. Have a good night's rest, Mr. Reese? Think I fared better than Wyler. He looks exhausted. Did you change the oil in the car this morning? No, I forgot. Sorry. You okay? Yeah, no, I'm fine. Hey! Sorry about that, Lloyd. You know that guy? No, he must have confused me with someone else. You hear that, Finch? Sounds like more than a case of mistaken identity. Mystery man just took off with a friend. Could be the same men that sent Wyler the postcard. Something tells me they're not in town for a reunion. I'm open! Detective. I found your guy. He was only arrested once, for a misdemeanor B&E, back in '91, but was wanted for a string of robberies and home invasions. He was a career thief. I'm sure Philly PD would love to have a talk with him. Let me guess. First name's Lloyd. Lloyd Pruitt. How'd you know? Wild guess. - Did he work with a crew? - Yeah, a couple other guys. Chris Vaughn and Daniel Burnside. They had a good run until they got caught taking a jewelry store in '97. Did 12 years. I guess your guy Lloyd missed that job or disappeared before they got picked up. He was busy becoming Graham Wyler, giving himself a clean slate. - Go get it! - He picked a good time to run. That job they got busted on, Vaughn shot an unarmed guard. He's dangerous. Thanks for your help, Carter. Good job! - Good play out there. - Thanks, mom. Finch, Vaughn's here. I'm gonna have a few words with him. Whoa! No way! Whose car is that? Wait. Stay back. Sucks about the car, Lloyd. Nice running into you today, though. Why don't we grab a drink? The Wallbanger, in the city. Noon tomorrow. We've got some catching up to do. Ah! Finch, looks like Wyler's past has come back to haunt him. You'll have access to all the camera feeds through your cell phone. And this alarm system, does it call the local police? No-no, no. It sends a signal to a private response team. You're doing the right thing. Yeah, Connie's still shaken up about the car fire. And for all we know, it could be a couple of teenagers. How are we doing, Harold? Almost finished, boss. Okay, if Wyler's old crew attempt to gain access to the house, we'll see them coming. Vaughn's been smart so far. Cops couldn't find the evidence on the SUV to point to a culprit. Speaking of Vaughn, I combed through his files. In each of the jobs that he and his crew have pulled, a safe was cracked using a technique called "lock manipulation." No drilling, no tools. All of it done by ear. This is a lost art. But in the last heist, there was a difference. Vaughn shot the guard to motivate the jewelry store manager to open the safe. The one job Wyler didn't show up for. He was the safecracker. Bailed on the last job. They blame him for getting locked up. A detail they'll, no doubt, remind him of when they meet this afternoon. Honey, you in here? Hey, so I just got off the phone with the insurance company. They say they can't send an investigator out till next week. Where are you going? I need to go get something for the store. Okay, well, hang out for a second, okay? They say they can't cover the cost of a rental. It can wait! All right? Look I need to go, okay? Can we handle this later? I can handle it myself. It's a couple of stupid phone calls. What's going on with you? Nothing you need to worry about. Graham, if there's something going on you think you can't tell me, get over it. Whatever it is, we'll figure it out together. I'll be back in a few hours. Graham, where are you headed? Catching a train into the city. I'm meeting a client there. Let me give you a lift. Save you some time. Thanks Quiet life takes some getting used to. Not your speed, huh? You know, a lot of guys in home security used to be in law enforcement. Were you a cop or something? Not me. Too many rules. Always had more fun breaking them. Guess we all got to grow up sometime, right? Certainly never thought I would. What changed? Me. Used to just look out for myself. Now I look out for Connie and Izzy. Nothing I wouldn't do for them. Ungh! Seems that Wyler's past threatens not only his life but his marriage as well. I'll be back. I've never seen him angry like that. He's probably just got a lot on his mind. You know, with the car and the-- It's not that. The whole time I've known him, Graham has always been the one with the solution. But today, I didn't even know who that was. You know, I never asked you how you two met. We met at a Springsteen concert in Jersey. This creep wouldn't stop hitting on me. And suddenly Graham appeared. I'd never seen him before, but he pretended to be my boyfriend so the other guy would go away. And I could just tell there was something different about him. That one moment changed your whole life. Yeah. Is that what it was like when you first met John? I can honestly say that I wouldn't be here without him. It's rare to find someone you can depend on. Ready to have some fun? You're good at connecting people to the things they don't want the world to know. How good are you at finding connections that no one knows exists? Try to tell me if there's a correlation between the cowboy and the taxi driver. Fifth cousins? Really? We do live in the great melting pot. Okay. What's the association between this jogger and-- It's her again. So you've found something interesting on Grace Hendricks? No? Then is she connected to anyone else in the park? I thought I fixed this. You haven't found a single anomaly in this woman's life. She's honest, decent, doesn't seem to have any dark secrets. Doesn't harbor ill will toward anyone. Which is what sets her apart from everyone else here. That and a passionate love for Charles Dickens. I can take a cab back from here. Thanks for the ride. You're welcome. Trying a new look? More like missing my old one. Your boys have been in there for half an hour. He showed. You owe me 20 bucks. How'd you find me? That is a real fun story. I was at work. Dishwasher. Only kind of job a con like me could get. My boss shows me this Facebook photo. Some babe he's plowing in New York. I look. I can't believe my eyes. There's Lloyd Pruitt standing in the background of this photo. My long lost friend. Smiling, laughing, beautiful daughter next to him in her nice school sweater. It's a hell of a life you've made for yourself, Lloyd. Wish I was spending my days selling hammers. Beats 12 years in the Fromhold State Penitentiary. Was it 12? It felt longer. Yeah, felt like 50. That's my fault? I told you the job was dangerous. But you thought you were invincible. And that's why I walked. How noble. The way we see it, you owe us, and we're here to collect. So that's it? You're gonna kill me over ancient history? Lloyd, you're the best safecracker we know. Why would we want to kill you? We're gonna break into an Everhold safe. It's a high-road job. We need your midas touch. In fact, the score's so big, when we're done, we're leaving the country. So get your affairs in order. What's stopping me from going to the cops about you two right now? It's a lovely home. Next time we take something with a heartbeat. What are you doing? They threatened his family. I'm taking 'em down. Can you take it easy instead? It's broad daylight, John. We're two blocks away from my precinct. These guys need to go away for a long time, Carter. Then catch them in the act. Right now, all we've got is conspiracy to commit a robbery. And that's from an illegal wiretap. It won't be enough to keep them from Wyler or his family. Then I'll make them understand they can never go near his family again. Okay. So are you gonna watch this family forever to make sure they listen? Tomorrow, 10:00 PM. We'll pick you up at that intersection. Be there, Lloyd. I slipped a burner phone on their truck. We can track them with it. If they make the wrong move, we'll grab them. What about Wyler? He's got a decision to make.  It serve you right to suffer   serve you right to be alone   it serve you right to suffer   serve you right to be alone   because you're still livin'   in days done past and gone   yeah  Wyler's due to meet Vaughn in an hour, Finch. What are we gonna do if he goes through with the job? What do you suggest? We take him out of the equation. He still has open warrants in Philly. With Wyler serving jail time, there's not much Vaughn could do. We'd risk breaking up his family. They might never forgive him. I know the prospect of a normal life seems remote to people like us, Mr. Reese. But wyler still has a chance to preserve his. Graham? Are you in here? Graham? Check the cameras, Finch. Make sure he hasn't already left. Mr. Reese, I'm afraid Wyler's made our decision for us. He left 15 minutes ago. Avoided his own camera. He's meeting Vaughn for the heist. His number's up, Finch. When he's done cracking that safe, Vaughn's got no reason to keep him alive. Finch, I need to know where Wyler is. What's the GPS location on Burnside's pickup? Somewhere in Hell's Kitchen. Hang on. It's an impound lot. They're pulling up stakes, ditching all traces. What about tracking the safe? Everhold may make a quality safe, but their firewall leaves something to be desired. I'm looking at their client list. There are more than 50 of them in Manhattan. Roll back the GPS history on the pickup. Vaughn might have done a drive-by for final preparations on the job. They parked for four hours outside a midtown Bistro. What's across the street? Residential high-rise. An Everhold safe was installed on the 42nd floor last year. Client's name is Enver Clerik. I'm sending you the address. I know that building. Front security desk is not gonna let you just walk in. But I can get you upstairs. I know a guy who lives in the building. Lawyer I untangled from a malpractice thing. He's kind of sweet on me. Finch, any way to see into that room before I go in? Building's website boasts that all units are equipped with smarthome technology. So, yes, I'm sure there's something we can exploit. Good. Call Carter, have her meet us there. Real nice of your old lady to let you come out and play. What do we need guns for? Oh, didn't I tell you? We're walking into a hot one. Guy who lives here is a gem dealer. When he's not in town, his nephew likes to have people over, show off the view of the place. These are for what's called "crowd control." I guess you forgot a mask for me. I must have miscounted. Sorry, buddy. - Honest mistake, I'm sure. - Let's go, boys. - Everyone in the corner! Now! - Let's go! Cell phones, jewelry, wallets in the bag now! Come on! You expecting anyone else to show up tonight? No. Listen, I know what you want. I don't know the combination. Nobody asked you! Bet you never thought you'd be trying to get on the other side of one of these again. If I'm gonna do this, it needs to be quiet. - Hey! - Aah! Shut up or get shot! It's all yours, maestro. Where are you, Finch? Already inside, Mr. Reese. I need to see just how encrypted their system is, so give me a moment. This is one way of catching them in the act. Everyone's up on the 42nd floor. Soon as I pull Wyler out of there, be ready to round up the crew. You really think it's gonna be that simple? Have a little faith. We haven't had the pleasure of meeting. - I'm Detective Carter. - Zoe. John's wife. Long story. - Rupert. - Good evening, Miss Morgan. He's expecting you and your friend. I know. You missed me. My friend and I are on our way up. Who did you say I was? Savannah. - An exotic dancer. - Hmm. Sorry, Rupert. Slight change of plans. How's it coming, Finch? I'm scanning all the devices in Mr. Clerik's apartment. Looks like his television is equipped with a camera. If I can access the video chat software, I may be able to trick the camera into turning itself on. And we have eyes. Mr. Reese, they've got hostages, and there are two other armed men. I don't think you're gonna be able to simply walk through the front door. Wasn't planning on it. Go check that out. Now. I got the numbers. Now I got to find the order. How much longer? As long as it takes. I'm in, Finch. Took you long enough! Forget about it. We're almost outta here. Hey! Relax! Relax! What is it? Might be a switch. Some kind of panic button. I'm afraid that's correct, Mr. Reese. The VOIP is dialing out to an emergency broadband network. Even if I canceled it, the call's already gone. Detective, I trust that you're still monitoring the police bands? Yeah, I heard the robbery call. Only got a few minutes before they show up. What's the situation like upstairs? Delicate. If he's alerted the cops, that's it then, we're out of here. Not till you open that safe. Do you wanna go to jail again? 'Cause that's what's gonna happen if we stay here. When did you start calling the shots? All that's changed is you've got three minutes to open that safe. No. Open it. Or I kill you right now. I'm hearing sirens. Am I gonna have to arrest John with the crew? Preferably not. In the event that the police arrive before he escapes Almost made it a whole day without you two asking me to break the law. I'll see what I can do. Thank you, Detective. These guys are getting jumpy, Harold. What do you got in the way of a distraction? I'm working on it. Got it. Man with the midas touch. I'm holding 20 million worth of blue garnets in my hand. I missed you, Lloyd. Wish I could say the same. Finch, I think that's your cue. Sending an audio file to the surround sound system. This might get loud. You ruined my life so you could start yourself a new one. This'll square it up. God! You gonna shoot me? It's been so long, you probably don't remember how that thing works. You don't want to do that. Detective Carter, on-scene commander. I've been on this crew all week. Everybody on me. We're gonna take the west stairwell up, got it? Got it. Let him go, Graham. I can't. This has to end. If you pull that trigger, then Graham Wyler-- the man you really are-- dies with him. He can't come after my family again. He won't. He'll spend the next three decades in prison. But if you do this, you'll be right there with him. What's Connie gonna do then? I knew you didn't have it in you. You were always-- The better man. _ Come on. Your exit is clear, Mr. Reese. I'm waiting in a car around the corner. Keep moving. There's not much time. Who are you? Your ride home. I left a note telling her everything. Who I was, what I'd done. I'm supposed to go back like nothing's ever happened? Connie and Izzy forget that everything they know about me is a lie? Not everything. What they mean to you, that's real. They know that. Can't change what I've done. The past is a difficult thing to outrun. Maybe it's time to stop running. Graham you don't have to do this. Yeah, I do. Wyler's done hiding, Finch. He just turned himself in. He may have decided to turn himself in, but you need to get out of there. Wyler's turning state's evidence in hopes for a reduced sentence. I suppose now the courts will decide what's best for him. Oh, hi, John. Connie. I was wondering if I could talk to Graham. He told me you helped him out. Didn't say how. But whatever you did You're welcome. See you're moving on. Yep. Guy like me doesn't belong in the suburbs. Just wanted to say good-bye. This is my stop. Unlike you, I'm stuck here. Literally. Judge didn't think I was a danger to society, so I get to pay my debt mowing the lawn. Graham? The washer's making that noise again. I'll be right there. I put her through a lot. And for whatever reason, she's still there when I wake up in the morning. Guess that says something. Take care, John. This the part where we get divorced? Sorry it didn't work out. Fun while it lasted though. Right? Well, we still have some scotch left. Want to stay one more night? Try to win some of that money back?  It serve you right to suffer   serve you right to be alone  Let me guess, one vanilla cone. Yes, please. Even in January, I always keep a few of these for when you come by. Am I really that predictable? No, you just don't deny yourself small pleasures. You may be the first person that ever told me that. Nothing wrong with it. You only live once, right?  Serve you right to be alone   Because you are still livin'   in days done past and gone   every time you see a woman   she make you think of yours  Hello. Hello. Stay tuned for scenes from our next episode.
You are being watched. The government has a secret system-- a machine that spies on you every hour of every day. I designed the machine to detect acts of terror, but it sees everything Violent crimes involving ordinary people. The government considers these people irrelevant. We don't. Hunted by the authorities, we work in secret. You will never find us. But victim or perpetrator, if your number's up, we'll find you.  I found that address, Finch. Who exactly am I looking for? I don't know how to explain it. I double-checked, but it seems - we have a repeat number. - A repeat? Well, who would be dumb enough to get in a life-threatening situation again? Hey, pal. You won't believe this. Fellas. Whatever bodily harm you want to inflict on this guy, I'm sure he earned it, and I have to ask you to let it slide. Jeez, Leon, what'd you do to piss these guys off? You heard of gold farming? Selling multiplayer online game currency for real cash? It's all the rage. People make millions. They take the business really seriously, especially the Russian mafia. Does it look like I play video games, Leon? I think I broke my arm. Ow! So you brought him here? You said there was another number. I didn't have time to do anything else with him. Mr. Tao, we don't have much time. What? Who are you? The guy who helped me save your life tonight for the second time. Oh. You're the boss. Never did figure John here for upper management. We have a problem, Leon. We have to go take care of another matter, and the Russians still want you dead. So despite my misgivings about your presence, you have to stay here. Where is here? Food, water. Latrine's down past the periodicals. Don't open any windows. And don't make any calls. You expect me to stay here, and eat Hot Pockets? Only if you wanna live. Just don't feed any to bear. He's on a special diet. That damn dog again. You don't suppose any of my money came out of him? Oh, and please don't touch any of my computer equipment. If you do, the dog will kill you. Great. What am I supposed to do for entertainment? It's a library, Mr. Tao. Try reading a book. Oh! Here's a start. We'll be back soon, Leon. Tell me, Mr. Reese, how do you feel about hospitals? - They've never bothered me. - I'm glad to hear it. They make me aggressively uneasy. After the renovations, you won't even recognize these old surgical suites anymore. Thanks to sizable contributions from donors such as yourself, New York General will finally have a surgical unit as good as the talented staff of doctors who utilize it. Sizable contribution? I helped pay for a wing or two. How else were we gonna get close to-- - Dr. Enright. Perfect timing. Gentlemen, this is Dr. Madeleine Enright, the top cardiothoracic and trauma surgeon in the state. She'll be overseeing the development of the suites. Madeleine, this is Harold Crane, one of our platinum donors, and his asset manager Mr. John Rooney. It's Maddy, please. Maddy is the kind of doctor that makes the staff here truly stand out. The kind of doctor who wouldn't find her glasses if they were surgically attached to her face. Would those be yours there? Oh. Like I said. I'm sorry, I have a patient waiting. I must be going. Nicely done, Finch. - Her eyes, our ears. - Hmm. Gentlemen, unfortunately, we must be going as well. We're closing off this section of the floor for a very sensitive surgery. Is that a normal precaution? Let me just say it's strictly for the safety of the patient. This room is nearly identical to the OR. That your procedure will take place in. It's a routine coronary bypass, off-pump, "beating heart" surgery. It lasts four, five hours, and you'll be in the room the whole time. Now we don't have all the best toys yet, but with our coronary catheterization process, and our 3D angiography C-arm system-- It's fully endoscopic? You've studied your procedures, mister-- Rains. Yes, I've studied. Can't be too safe, not when Mr. Veldt has an energy empire to run. Four to five hours? You can't do better than that? Mr. Veldt, regardless of how big your company is, this surgery is critical for you. It takes time. As long as it remains private from shareholders and the public. Per the multiple nondisclosure agreements you've signed. Yeah, and despite my objections, your procedure has been listed as minor outpatient surgery. My team has been reduced to essential personnel, and the floor is being cleared now. My team will make sure of that. Of course. Yeah, your security seems to have made themselves at home. Trauma! Albanian gang member shot in a territorial dispute. Penetrating trauma, fresh from emergency. - Ballistic? - Single GSW, upper torso. Paramedics had trouble with the BP. Systolic was 70, but diastolic was impalpable. He's got a gun. Everybody shut up! You wanna be a tough guy, or you want me to save your friend's life? Nurse, this man is in hypovolemic shock, and I think a collapsed lung is what's giving those O2 readings. Okay, we're moving. Prep surgery, and a thoracotomy tray. Get me a restraint before he swallows his tongue. She certainly seems unflappable. I'd say. You sure she was never a combat medic? I'm not so sure she isn't one now. So what's the threat besides gun-toting gangs in surgery? It could come from anywhere else. A malpractice in her past, a bereaved relative of a patient she lost, or as always, someone in her personal life. Oh. I brought you an espresso and a pain au chocolat from the French place on Columbus that you like. Oh you know I shouldn't. Except on days when you're closing up gunshot wounds. Ugh-- you must've been in a cab half the morning to get this. Your text said "emergency." I take emergencies very seriously. Maddy seems safe, Finch. Her wife's name is Amy. I found her bio on the website of the children's charity where she's executive director. They've been married since last June. So when does that Veldt guy go into surgery? I, uh-- half hour. Ugh. God, I am already exhausted, and I still have that. I have that art fundraiser th the park today, but I'm gonna check in on you, okay? And try to give that jerk a bigger heart, while you're at it. Well, I can't fix everything that's broken. Two shots, close range? That overkill when you shoot a guy in the back? Even got his pocket lint. - Carter. - Hey, it's me. Someone dropped a body in Long Island City, execution-style. I think you wanna come take a look. - You can't handle it? - Trust me, you wanna be here. It's got your name all over it-- literally. I'm sorry-- you can't be in here. But I'm rather enjoying the view. Are you looking for someone? Yes. For you. Did you know that according to the American Medical Association, die from medical error? I don't know who you are, but-- My name, while inconsequential, is Alistair Wesley. Today, a mistake will be your best friend. Let's you and I discuss Oliver Veldt. Now are you watching carefully? Your lovely wife Amy. The infrared laser belongs to a marksman, and unless you wish to see his skill, you will listen. Oliver Veldt will not survive his surgery. Tomorrow, the papers will note that despite the heroic efforts of his talented surgeon, at approximately 1:15, he expired from a massive internal hemorrhage. You're crazy. How would I-- - how could I do that? - Very easily. Wait, Mr. Reese. Something's happening. You must follow my instructions to the letter. - Someone is with Maddy. - Exactly one hour into surgery, you will introduce 100ccs of the anticoagulant heparin into his system-- instant hemophilia. you will nick his left anterior descending artery. He will bleed out on the operating table. No-- I can't. I won't. If surgery is stopped for any reason, Amy dies. If she is warned in any way, she dies. If the police are called to the park or to the hospital, she dies. Do you understand these rules? Excellent. It would be wise not to test me in any way. Talk soon. So Maddy's not the victim after all, Mr. Reese. No, Finch. They're gonna force her to be the perpetrator. That's the threat, Finch. They're going to kill Oliver Veldt. On the contrary, they're gonna have maddy do it for them. Well, we need to get to her. We'll never get past veldt's security. Besides, as long as his guards are around, she should be safe in surgery. It's her wife that I'm worried about. It might be good to have someone near the doctor. I'll stay here. I'll handle the park and assess the threat on Amy. Eh, Finch? Are you gonna be okay here? Even if I had a phobia, Mr. Reese, now would not be the time for it. Ooh ugh Who's the vic? Guy by the name of Dusan Babic. immigrated from Croatia, worked for Greater New York Custodial Services. - Straight-up robbery? - That's what I thought till I found this on him. I didn't feel the need to share with others. Check the back. What does that mean? I thought you could tell me. Well, you might wanna get out of here before people start asking questions you can't answer. Thanks. Fentanyl administered, doctor. Mr. Veldt, if I could ask you to sign one last consent form. How many forms will it take for me to sign my life away? Liz is just doing her job, Mr. Veldt. Any surgery has its risks. And I chose the top surgeon in the state to eliminate them. You'd do best to remember that. Doctor? Once the procedure begins, are you planning on using the saphenous vein for the bypassing channel? No, I'll use the internal mammary artery for grafts, which anyone with an MD will tell you shows the best long-term results. But thank you for your unnecessary concern, Mr. Rains. _ I'm in Maddy's office, Mr. Reese. With her computer, perhaps I can discover the connection between Veldt and Wesley. I'm at the park now, Finch. Got eyes on Amy, and she couldn't be more exposed. Lots of bystanders around here too. According to Wesley's rules, if we alert the police, she's dead. Then we find the sniper. We know anything more about Alistair Wesley? Besides his name and that accent? I can't find out anymore while I'm stuck here in the surgical wing. Then we'll work with what we got. I was able to decode the live video of Amy in the park that Wesley sent, so as long as Maddy is streaming it here in the hospital, we'll be able to see it too. Sending you an image. Can you use it to triangulate the sniper's position? It wouldn't be the first time. From Maddy's personal file, it seems that Oliver Veldt's blood type is O-negative. If I can hack the hospital's inventory and register a shortage of O-negative blood, I could stall the surgery without breaking any of Wesley's rules. Finch, I pinpointed the sniper's location. Based on that laser, our sniper has a northeast position at least eight floors up. Type III ballistic body armor. Don't worry. Those ribs'll heal. No ID, Finch. Super glue on his finger tips. Classic black ops trick. Hello, Mr. Mystery guest. Wesley, is it-- Alistair Wesley? I don't know who you are or what you just did to my associate, but I'd like to buy you a drink, or Amy dies immediately. That's a kind offer, but your sniper's toast. I'll call your bluff. You're assuming he was alone. All units check in. Red one. Check. Red two. Check. And so on and so forth. There's a pub at the corner of the park. I'll be seeing you. Mr. Reese, what will you do? Guess I'll go have that drink. Okay, Mr. Babic, who wanted you dead, and what are they trying to tell me? Lived alone, never missed a day of work at Greater New York Custodial. Serviced business across the city-- mostly tech companies, including Fujima Techtronics, located at 66 11th Avenue, New York. I didn't figure you for a day-in-the-park kind of guy. Anyone can appreciate nature, Lionel. So what's up? See that art fair over there? There's a nice young lady running it. Her name's Amy. I need you to keep an eye on her for a minute. What-- she in some kind of trouble? Let's just say she found herself in a few crosshairs. Wait, where you going? - To have a drink. - Wait, what? This is a professional team, Finch. If they were brought on to execute this plan, someone is paying them. Unfortunately, I'm unable to play detective today, but I know somebody perfect. I-I know who Oliver veldt is-- energy guy, right? "Energy" in the sense that he supplies power to half the Eastern seaboard, yes. Someone wants to flatline him, huh? We have a job that's a perfect fit for a former forensic accountant. Think of it as a digital treasure hunt. Find out who would target Veldt in the corporate world, follow the money trail to the hit team, and help us stop the plot at its source. How am I supposed to do that? Go over to my computer station. I'm not supposed to touch the computer, remember? And your special diet man-eater won't let me go anywhere near the keyboard. Put me on speakerphone. Bear? Ontspan. Ont-- ontspan? Multilingual mutt-- dig it. Start by composing a list of Veldt's enemies. Who stands to benefit most from Veldt's death? Did another company plot it? Gives new meaning to the phrase "hostile takeover," huh? I'm extending an element of trust to you, Mr. Tao. Please resist the temptation to test the limits of my system. Do I seem like the kind of guy who would let you down? Do you know why a good barman favors larger ice cubes? They melt slower. And they don't dilute the whiskey, the way a tight plan doesn't obscure its objectives. Is that to protect you from me? No, but it might help against your sentry at the door. The silencer poking out of his crossword section was a pretty good giveaway. I have my own cameras positioned all over, and a troop of operatives running recce on the wife. There's always someone close enough to kill her at a moment's notice, so put away the gun and have a drink. I'd say you were a former MI-6, and your team-- all ex-SAS. You're good on your feet, and you know your way around an asset. Ex-CIA? Smashing. How much do you cost? - Not for sale. - You're working for Veldt? Some kind of additional security? It doesn't matter. What matters is-- if you were caught, why didn't I kill the wife? Because the doctor hasn't broken any of your rules yet. Exactly, but my sense of propriety has its limits. Now stay out of the park and away from the wife. This isn't your game, and no one's invited you to play. Don't test me. I was expecting everything. You weren't expecting me. We'll be ready for you soon, doctor. _ Dr. Enright, I hate to bother you. What are you doing in here? Do you remember me? From earlier today? You're that donor-- Crane. Look, you may not believe this, but I know your wife, Amy, and I know the predicament that you're in. I have an associate who's working now to ensure her safety, but you have to trust us. Who are you? How do I know you're not working for that man? This procedure was supposed to start 20 minutes ago, but I altered the hospital blood records to delay the surgery. In a moment, a nurse will come in here to explain the error. Now listen to me carefully. We can't make Wesley suspicious, but we'll save Amy before you have to make the incision. Doctor, I checked the O-neg records downstairs. It's a computer mix-up. They're fixing the glitch. We have plenty of blood reserves. We should be ready to go shortly. Liz, this is Dr. Crane. I brought him in as a second scrub if I need help. Whatever you say, doctor. Help me. Help us, Amy and I, or I don't know what I'll do. Maddy has officially gone into the operating room, Mr. Reese. How are things in the park? My drink with Wesley didn't go so well, but we can count another one of his operatives out. He brought his own cameras and has every inch of this park monitored. It seems that he too knows the value of surveillance. What's worse-- if he chose his people well, we'll never pick his sleepers out of a crowd this big. Ports and trocar is inserted. I'll start the harvest of the mammary artery. Is everything all right, doctor? Readjust the camera a millimeter along the main coronary, please. How is that, doctor? Increasing irrigation. Applying more suction. She's injecting the anticoagulant into Veldt's IV. Mr. Reese, we're running out of time. Mr. Reese, Maddy's holding it together somehow, but after that injection of heparin, Veldt's a time bomb. Any wrong incision at this point-- Hold on. Mr. Tao, what did you find? Finch! Bubby-- I hacked into the Veldt Corp. servers using a back door in their website and found a proposed multimillion-dollar project for offshore wind farms. Veldt dismissed it. An "unsustainable pipe dream," he called it. - That's an actual quote-- - Leon. I called an old drinking buddy at the SEC. Who sent me blue sheets, monthly reports tracking stock activity. I found a series of short sales for Veldt stock. It's trading at an all-time high, so someone's betting that the company fails big. That investor will make a fortune if the stock drops. For instance, if the CEO underwent a secret surgery and died on the table. Yahtzee. It must be Wesley and his associates. They're financing their own operation. I found an active server at the ISP for those short sales. Could be an interesting arbitrage opportunity here. I'll keep digging. Let me know the minute you find something. Hello, doctor. Still trying to secure your wife. Everyone, I'm going to need to take a short break for a few minutes. Are you all right, doctor? Do we need to get someone in here to assist with the surgery? No, that won't be necessary, Liz. Please monitor the patient's vitals, and I'll be right back. Is there nothing more we can do? I promise you-- my associate is close to getting Amy out of danger. Yeah, I just-- I need a minute. Why did you stop, doctor? I don't think you understand how serious this is. How about a little motivation? I'm going to connect you to your wife now. You have 30 seconds, but do remember the rules and how much you have to lose. Ooh, sorry. I have to take this. Hi, babe! I thought you were in surgery. Still going. I just, uh, took a break to catch my breath. Uh, it's nothing compared to yours, but it's been nuts here. The caterers didn't show for the donor picnic, and I had to scramble. I'm sorry, Ames-- um, I only have a minute. The timetable is killer. I just wanted to hear your voice. Is everything all right? Totally fine. I love you. I love you, too. Hang in there. Wesley knew the surgery was interrupted in less than a minute. He must have eyes and ears in that hospital somewhere. We don't have a choice, Finch. I'm getting Amy out. Everybody has to stay in the plaza until we work this out. Excuse me. Detective Carter, Homicide. Homicide? You got here pretty fast. We just called in shots fired a few minutes ago. Uh, I don't know if there are a bodies yet. There was shots fired inside? Some kind of botched robbery. What is this place? Fujima Techtronics research facility. Alarms went off on the clean room floor, where they do R&D. Guy got inside, had his exit blocked, shots fired, guards down, ambulance is on its way. We're clearing the building as we speak. Excuse me. What's the status on those floor evacuations? So what are you thinking? Diversion, then extraction. So if you're the extraction, I'm the diversion? What do you need me to do? Hey, buddy-- I'm working an abduction in the area. You see anything suspicious? Sorry, Detective, I haven't, and I've been on the beat all morning. Hey-- I didn't excuse you, Officer. - What? - What are you, a probie? Have a little respect when I talk. I'm sorry, sir. I haven't seen anything. - Wish I could help. - Yeah. I want your name, your badge, your social security number. Where are you from? - What precinct are you from? - Hey, settle down, okay? I don't know why you're breaking my balls, Detective. You represent the NYPD? I want some ID right now. - Finch. - Mr. Tao? Ah-- that was fast. Me and Bear-- we're a hell of a team. Even with one arm, I'm still the fastest gun in the west. Yes, yes, back pats all around. What'd you find out? Well, I was snooping around the short seller server. That thing was a gold mine-- private medical forms signed by Oliver Veldt buried in a trash file. Would you believe that? This is fun. This is what you and John do all day long? Someone on the inside must've told Wesley about the surgery. Who would've known in advance? This whole thing was supposed to be a big secret, right? Someone in Veldt's company with knowledge of the surgery, familiar with its intricacies-- Mr. Tao, how quickly can you send me everything you've dug up? Oh I'm sorry, this isn't my phone-- - Amy, we don't have a lot of time, so I need you to listen. I know your wife, Maddy. She's a great surgeon. I know you two love each other, and I know you love pastries from a French bakery on the West Side. Personally, I think they use too much butter. What? What's going on? You and Maddy are in a lot of danger right now, but I'm here to help you. I don't know what you're talking about. There are cameras watching you. I can direct you out of the park, and keep you off the radar from a lot of bad people, but you need to stay on that phone, and listen to me very carefully. One wrong step, and it's over. Yes, Finch. Mr. Reese, according to Maddy's timetable, we have less than two minutes to Nick Veldt's artery. Please tell me you have Amy somewhere safe. I'm working on it, Finch. Agent Snow-- freeze. Turn around slowly. There's no signal down here. She can't hear us. What's goin' on, Mark? We don't have much time. I don't know what she's planning, but you have to tell our friend. Whatever it is, it's big, and I can't stop it. You killed a man for his ID to get inside that company, and then you shot a guard. Why? I had no choice. This is just the beginning. She's on a mission with nothing left to lose. More people are gonna die. I'll call bomb disposal, and I'll take you in. I'll get you out of this. She won't let you. She-- who is she? Mr. Rains, we're on a clock-- and please, don't contact your British friend until you've heard me out. British friend? What is this? Faxed to me by a friend. It's quite inclusive-- all the blue pages, the short sales, the fake company, and all that confidential medical information that you shared with Wesley. Wesley? Who? How much did they pay you to be their inside man? Inside man on what? The plot to kill your boss. Look, I have enough on you to send you to prison for a long time. On a good day, I just follow through with that. Today, I'll bargain. All the evidence I have in exchange for your power to call this thing off. Why would I wanna kill Oliver? After he recovers, we're supposed to re-examine a new energy project together. The Wind Farm project-- you want that to be a reality? I don't know what all this is. Is Oliver in danger? If that's the truth and you didn't leak news of the surgery, who did? How's that other operation we were discussing, doctor? Still in progress. What are you doing? Doctor, you have to complete the procedure. We have to stop this. Everyone, I'm calling this-- I want you all to calmly exit the room. What about the patient? I'm declaring myself unfit to continue this procedure. I will stabilize Mr. Veldt, and then I will follow you. Now go. Everyone-- go. Mr. Reese, get Amy out of there now. Listen up-- start walking to the 40th Street exit of the park. You had to do it the hard way, doctor. Enough games. Calling all units-- you are green-lit on the target, then proceed to exfil. I'm staying with you, doctor. You can't do this alone. Liz and I will move the tools from Mr. Veldt's chest cavity. I need you to go to the cabinets inside the scrub room and find me propofol so that we can keep him unconscious. Whatever happens, you made the right decision. Wesley, the target is gone, and she's not on any of the cameras. Then someone is very, very smart. Keep moving, Amy. There! You're almost there. - Hi, I'm John. - Amy. Let's get you out of here, Amy. Hey, officer, do me a favor, will ya? Tell your partner in the park I'm sorry for busting his balls like that. Partner? What partner? I walk the park beat alone. Your wife should've listened. He's crashing. His BP is plummeting. He's going into V-tach. You must've nicked an artery. It was you. - You made the incision. - No. You're the surgeon, doctor. I'm just the nurse. Or, in this case, the backup plan. Hey, Officer-- about that abduction. You knew they were going to hurt Amy. Just let him die. I'm not gonna let him die. Understand what's at stake for you, doctor. It's just one life. It's still a life. Stay with her. I gave him protamine sulfate - to coagulate his blood again - Oh But I'm gonna have to restart his heart, and I won't be able to do that from the outside. What does that mean? I'm gonna open him up, and you're gonna assist me. I am? Pass me that, Richardson. That's it-- I need you to pull with a lot of pressure, okay? I'm gonna take this Finochietto retractor. Now, hold the chest op-- okay, yeah. Just keep it pulled. I don't think I can-- You can do it. Need lots of suction so I can see this artery. That's it. There we go. Okay, pass me the clamp. I'm going to clamp this now. Suture it later to stop the arterial bleeding. Now I'm going to begin open heart massage. All right. Oh, dear. Look at it. It's squishy. Come on. We did it. We got him back. Hey, Mads. I thought I was gonna lose you. No. I'm here. I'm right here. Sorry for the theatrics, Mr. Tao, but we couldn't have you turning up knocking on our door. What if I was collecting for UNICEF? So Veldt survived, huh? And as long as he recovers, that stock won't dip an inch. All the conspirators will take a huge loss. You defeated the bad guys. With your help. Take that to mind and try to stay out of trouble, Mr. Tao. You know, I'm not the kind of guy that would let you down. Think we'll be seeing him again any time soon? Stranger things have happened. That's not your phone, Mr. Reese. I took it off the sniper in the park. Hello, Wesley. I just had to call and congratulate you on a game well played. It wasn't a game. Lives were at stake. And after that elaborate plan, you were no more than a common thief. You know I'm much more than that. After our meeting, I knew you looked familiar. You're John Reese. Our paths have crossed before in Istanbul at that market by the Bosphorus. I remember the market. I don't remember you. Well, that's the point. I was trained that way for a reason. Those were the days. International manhunts. Drone strikes. Now sometime we should finish that drink. I'm sure you and I would have a lot to talk about. Until then. John F. Kennedy, please. International terminal. It seems Wesley enjoys a good game, Mr. Reese. And I'm sure we'll have the chance to play again. Been doing a little work on the side? I'm a Homicide Detective, John. You know what I do. You shouldn't have brought me in on this if you didn't want me asking questions. - You sure it was Snow? - I saw him fleeing the scene of the crime wearing a bomb vest. He looked desperate, helpless, like someone was holding him on a string. Said to tell you that she is planning something. Something big. - Who? - That's what I wanna know. Do you know what this is all about, John? And if you did, would you even tell me? You're one hell of a Detective, Carter. And I can't stop you from looking. But you already know quite a bit about me, Finch, and you may know we both had people who once cared about us. Not anymore. But you You still have your son, your life is still yours. So I think the real question you have to ask yourself, Detective is how much more do you really want to know?
You are being watched. The government has a secret system-- a machine that spies on you every hour of every day. I designed the machine to detect acts of terror, but it sees everything-- violent crimes involving ordinary people. The government considers these people irrelevant. We don't. Hunted by the authorities, we work in secret. You will never find us. But victim or perpetrator, if your number's up, we'll find you. This place, I love it. I thought you might. You mentioned craving some real espresso the last time we spoke. Oh, I think I became a coffee snob - after living in Italy. - Oh, when was that? I spent my junior year in Venice. It was like a beautiful daydream. Sorry, that sounds silly. No, no, not at all. I got to be 2 feet away from De Chirico's The Red Tower. His paintings have that sense of mystery, of something looming. Yeah, it's like life is frozen in that moment and the universe is about to reveal all its secrets. Yes, and it did, in a way. That's when I knew I wanted to be an artist. And here you are. Well I-I'm just an illustrator. I mean, I paint sometimes, but what I do is about discovery. Every day, there's a new lesson to learn, a new mystery around the corner. So, uh, have you ever been to Italy? I first saw the Italian countryside through a view-master. The viewfinder thing with the circular slides? Exactly. I spent hours looking through it, pretending that I was actually there. Did you ever get to see it in person? After college. Yeah, and it was even more beautiful than I had imagined. So it was worth the wait. Unquestionably. Passage, Delta, Epsilon, Zeta, Victor, Whiskey, Motion, November, Foxtrot. I've already eaten, Mr. Reese. Thank you. Who said it was for you? Doggie Danish. So who's our new number? Two numbers, actually. Sabrina and Daniel Drake. Co-CEOs of East Village Publishing. The drakes are worth over $100 million. Sabrina Drake met her husband Daniel while working at Random House in '92. They both left their jobs shortly thereafter and eloped. I had 'em pegged for a wedding at the Plaza. Maybe her parents didn't want to pay for it. Mr. Drake grew up nearly destitute, but he was smart, and managed to finagle a full scholarship to Northwestern. I'd say someone's after their money. Or revenge. They recently released a scathing indictment of the Maryland Militia and its leader, Wade Huggins. The author claims that Mr. Huggins has more than 10,000 firearms and teaches his followers to build car bombs in case of domestic insurgence. Huggins has made a few thinly-veiled threats, but has yet to make his move. I imagine the machine has seen whatever it is he's planning on doing. And what are you planning, Finch? I need you to go to the Drakes' place of business while I visit their home. I'm proud of you, Finch. You've really gotten comfortable with your breaking and entering duties. Thank you for appreciating my descent into deviant behavior. As for the workplace this is an RFID duplicator. You simply scan an active card, copy this blank, and you'll have access to all the company's offices. And where do I get an active card? I can't do everything, Mr. Reese. Come on, come on, come on. We're going to be late. Only if late means I'm in, Finch. When you reach reception, tell them you're there for the Harold Crane meeting. I made an appointment under the guise of investing in a new imprint. I'll be a no-show and rudely never call to cancel, which should buy you plenty of time to loiter. It's called recon, Finch. Relax. You're anxiety is giving me anxiety. I know, I'm sorry, but you know how he is. He always has to be the first to arrive. Henry takes this irritated pleasure with us always being late, even if we're early. It's an absurd power play. Marty called from The Atlantic, again. You have lunch today with Xander Lonegan's publicist. He wanted to know your thoughts - on the "Ten Best" article. - That guy is persistent. Tell him I'll call him tomorrow and make sure I read that before I go home today. Uh, who are you here to see, sir? Yes, I'm waiting on my employer, Harold Crane. Okay. Yes, of course. Please tell me when he arrives. This company is not for sale, Henry. Every company is for sale. The offer's been on the table for two weeks. - They're not gonna wait forever. - So let 'em walk. Legal went over this proposal dozens of times, it's solid. The numbers speak for themselves. The numbers mean nothing if we don't have control over our product. We were down 20% this quarter, With all due respect, I'm not sure creative control is what we need right now. We're not the only publishing house who's having troubles, Henry. Random House doesn't seem to be complaining. Oh, come on, they're three times our size. You want to walk away from $1/2 billion, Daniel? The board meets tomorrow. I say we let 'em vote, - then we decide. - A vote? You and Sabrina are majority shareholders. Your votes are the only ones that matter, and you know it. You're hearing this? There seems to be some discontent in the ranks, Finch. Someone made an offer on the company, and there's a very eager taker. His name's Henry. Henry Brooks. He was the Drake's first investor, and still owns 5% of the company. Which means he has a lot to lose if that deal doesn't go through. Your manager called and said you had to reschedule. Something about a computer malfunction. Oh, it's a misunderstanding. Good, because Mr. and Mrs. Drake have requested high-speed fiber optic throughout the house. That won't be a problem. Mr. Reese, I'm almost finished at the Drakes'. It's quite a lovely home. Don't get too comfortable, Finch. Sabrina's on her way to a meeting across town, and her husband has a lunch meeting near 76th and Park. I can't keep eyes on both of 'em. The restaurant is close to The Brownstone. I'll keep an eye on him while you follow Mrs. Drake. Yeah, that's right. Meet me at 6:00, corner of 12th and Greenwich. _ Huh? Yeah, yeah, I'm still here. Carter. That's the second time Fusco sent me to voice mail. Should I be offended? Am I my partner's keeper, John? No, but I'll bet you still have an opinion. I want to give him the benefit of the doubt, but guy's been acting jumpy. Sneaking off, taking phone calls, that sort of thing. I'll look into it, but first, you need to find out anything you can about a man named Wade Huggins. Maryland Militia Wade Huggins? I just got a heads up he's on his way to town to protest a publishing company. I need his location. I take it you know something that I don't. The husband and wife owners are in trouble. I'm just trying to find out who's causing it. Mr. Reese, Daniel Drake is leaving the restaurant now. Finch, do you still have eyes on the husband? Yes. What's the matter? Do you see anything suspicious or out of place? No, Mr. Reese. Has something happened to Mrs. Drake? A man just planted something on their car. What kind of something? Like a tracking device? Not unless tracking devices come with remote detonators. A bomb. Where's Mrs. Drake? I got to it before she arrived. Thank God. What'd you do with it? Nothing yet. Shouldn't we call the bomb squad? No time. It's got a cell phone trigger. Call might come in at any second. John, you need to get away from it right now. Just need to get to the wires. John, are you there? I'm okay, Finch. The device was homemade. Crude, but it would have gotten the job done. Now, we have a contact number for our bomber. Yeah? I don't mean to minimize your near death experience, Mr. Reese, but are you certain that you bluejacked Daniel Drake's phone? This morning, on the elevator. Why? He must have a second one. You said it was handled, Santi. Relax, I'm on it. Well, you better be. Otherwise, I'm gonna keep the rest of your fee, you got it? Mr. Reese, it's not the Maryland Militia we need to worry about. The bomber just contacted Daniel Drake. It seems he's the one that tried to kill his wife. Finch, the drakes are back at their office. Thank you for your support this morning. Oh, don't worry, you made it really clear - how you feel about the matter. - Call your shrink if you need someone to hold your hand, Sabrina. I can't believe you want to sell the only thing we ever did right. You know what, I always knew you were defeatist. I never knew you were spineless. If by "spineless" you mean "fiscally prudent," fine. Not all of us grew up with nannies and Tiffany rattles. Oh, the poor-kid card. That's your favorite. You are a stubborn, obtuse, overindulged pseudo-intellectual. Really? I'm sorry. Which one of us went to Yale? - Oh, there we go. Yeah, okay. - 'Cause that would be me. And where did you go? Northwestern. - Oh, your safety school. - My safety school. Well, you know what? Keep trying to deflect all you want, hon, but a smart girl like you should see the writing on the wall. It is time to sell the company. Absolutely not. You know, you can't admit being wrong in anything, can you? You can never admit to losing anything, no matter how misguided. Are you hearing this, Finch? Apparently we underestimated their marital discontent. Sounds more like disgust. The components of the incendiary device that you defused are an exact replica of one detailed in the militia's underground manual. So Daniel Drake hired someone to build a bomb that could be easily traced to a group that had publicly threatened their lives. Very clever. Guess murder is one way to break up a marriage. But wouldn't divorce have been simpler? Not if he wants the sale to go through. When Frank McCourt was trying to sell the Dodgers, it was held up for months while he went through one of the most expensive divorce cases in history. I didn't know you were a baseball fan, Finch. - The Mets? - Not particularly. - Orioles? - I suppose. The A's. Oakland is fine, and the Cubs, and the Red Sox too, although, I'm not certain my affection for any one of these teams would reveal where I grew up, - Mr. Reese. - Okay, where were we? I found both the Drakes' wills on their home computer. In the event of her death, Mrs. Drake's shares go to her husband. So he will no doubt try to kill her again in the next 24 hours. We need to find that hit man. What about the name Drake used? "Santi"? My best guess is that it belongs to a man named Nestor Santiago. He's listed a number of times on Mr. Drake's phone records. They grew up on the same street in Flatbush. - Childhood friends. - We have a recent address? Mr. Santiago was in Sing Sing until eight months ago. Since then, he's stayed off the government's radar. Although, one of the arresting detectives works at the eighth precinct. I've enlisted Detective Carter's help. Yeah, I remember Santiago. What'd that idiot do now? He may be involved in a homicide. Anything you can do to shed some light on his whereabouts? Not offhand. He was a small-time dealer, started using his own product, and took a dive down the rabbit hole. I pinched him selling in hell's kitchen. No shoes, no shirt, and a .45 tucked into his jockeys. How'd he get off with so little time? Good lawyer. Some overpriced suit from the Upper East. What did Santiago do? I can't read you in on this one, Beecher. Yeah, I know the drill. Homicide Task Force is first class, and the rest of us are coach. It's not like that. I'm just busting your balls, Carter. It's always good to have one of you task forcers owe me a favor, especially one who smells like rose petals instead of an ashtray. Thanks, it's Jasmine. No problem. Um, hey, listen, one of my undercovers is working with a dealer who used to do business with him. Let me see what I can dig up. I will definitely owe you one. Finch, the Drakes are on the move. They're heading to a book signing for one of their authors. I'm all for cutting greenhouse gases, but you do remember that Mr. Drake is trying to kill his wife? The husband isn't the type to get his hands dirty. I'm confident he won't kill his wife in the back of their chauffeured town car. Understood, but I wouldn't put it past him to pull something at the event, and the militia members will be in attendance. Perfect timing for a frame job. Finch, I got a sniper on my 6:00. I got the wife. I'm not sure it's Mrs. Drake the sniper's after, Mr. Reese. She just sent a text to an anonymized number. It just says, "now." The husband is the target. Sure-- Excuse you. No, just some maniac. He just-- Mr. Reese? What's happening? Maryland Militia protects America! You're publishing lies! Maryland Militia protects America! Shame on East Village Publishing! Mrs. Drake just sent another text. It's several question marks and exclamation points. Finch, I think I've figured out why the machine gave us both numbers. The Drakes took out a hit on each other. Sorry I'm late. I had a few things to finish up before I left the office. Something you want to share, Harold? I haven't seen you this nervous since your thesis presentation. Nice pocket square. What, do you have a hot date? You old dog. What's her story? Stop. It's nothing, Nathan. Ah, of course. Talking about your love life would run at cross purposes with your invisible man routine. That's okay, Harold, I get it. Just remember, while mystery is a powerful tool in a relationship a little goes a long way. Trust me. Your friend's wedding was yesterday. I take it you saw Olivia? Yeah, I did. I hadn't seen Olivia since the mediation. Did you speak with her? I tried. You know the only thing worse than hate? Indifference. I told her so many lies over the years, I don't even remember what half of them were. The truth always catches up to you, Harold, no matter how hard you try and hide it. So we have two victims who are also perpetrators, not to mention two hit men. You know, Mr. Reese, it did occur to me, we could leave the Drakes to their own devices. That's pretty mercenary of you, Finch. I kind of like it. If that's the case, I may have crossed some moral threshold. I can't help thinking about the innocent people who could use our help while we're spending all our time with a couple that have chosen murder over marriage counseling. Well, do we have another number? Sadly, no. Then it's the Drakes' lucky day, but we're going to need all hands on deck. Were you able to locate Fusco? After sending my messages to voice mail, Detective Fusco removed his cell phone battery. Carter was right. He's up to something. Last time he used his cell phone was at 12th Street and Greenwich Avenue. We better find out what he's got himself mixed up in. Is something wrong, Lionel? No, I'm-- I'm fine. Sorry about the early reservation. The only other one they had was 10:30, so I figured-- It's okay, I like that we got it all to ourselves. Wow! That is so pretty. Look at it. Yeah. I am. It's, uh small. It was nice of Larry to set us up, right? He's a sweetie. Yeah, our kids play hockey together. Mm. His son Mitchell is one of my students. Must be hard to spend much time with your son. I mean, being a detective and all. Those are long hours, right? Eh, my ex thought so. But the job's not that interesting anyway. I think it's super interesting. Believe me, you'd be bored. Excuse me, sir, there's a phone call for you. Sorry, I got to take that. Hey, I'm kind of in the middle of something here. If I'm to believe the waiter, it sounds like you're near the end of something. You really do need to work on your conversational skills. So who needs saving? I need you to keep an eye on a woman named Sabrina Drake. I'm sending you the address, and, please, put your cell phone battery back where it belongs. I'm sorry, that was work. I just got called in to a stakeout. Okay. I understand if you don't want to take a rain check on the date. I mean, my job gets in the way a lot. I understand, Lionel. My cousin's a cop. Bad pay. Bad hours. What if I join you? We could give up on our foodie experiment and go to my favorite falafel place. Yeah? Mr. Drake doing anything he shouldn't? Oh, he's working like everything's normal and he didn't hire an ex-con to kill his wife. Yeah. Fusco says the missus is hard at work too. How did two people go from being in love to wanting each other dead? Being in love is one thing. Being married, a whole different animal. Those vows change everything. Which one? "Till death do us part." Yeah, something like that. One day you're married to your soul mate, then you watch them turn into someone else. Sometimes you're so in love with who a person was, you can't bring yourself to love who they've become. You ever think about moving on? Like dating? Sure. In my spare time, like when I'm not being a single mom or a homicide detective, or whatever this is. What about you? One second. - Carter. - Hey, it's Beecher. You got any news on Santiago? Yeah, I talked to my guy. He said Santiago was asking around about where to boost a Deli-to-door van. Said he needed it to access some publishing building in midtown. Thanks, Beecher. I think Santiago is on his way to see Mrs. Drake. Someone cut the power. Looks like Mrs. Drake's hit man just found his target. So this dumbass forgets to log out of his Facebook account after he robs the place. We pick him up two hours later. Guess what he's doing. Updating his status? He couldn't help himself. I'm so glad you came, Rhonda. Me too. What? Detective, we have a problem. Delivery man just arrived on the 29th floor. All right, I'm on my way. Look, I'll be right back, okay? - Okay. - All right. NYPD! Who in the hell is on my property? - Get down! - What are those guys-- - get down! Go! Go! Hey! Who are you people? What is going on? Somebody better talk to me right now and tell me what the heck is going on! I want-- Uh, what are you doing? Sometimes you need to break a few eggs to save lives. Yeah, pretty sure that's not the saying. Hey, pal. Hey, can I help you? None of your business, bruja. It's Detective Bruja. You got some ID? What's happening? NYPD. Everything's okay, ma'am. All right, come with me. Come on, come on, come on, come on. Where's your backup? Shouldn't there be backup? Uh here they are now. You don't look like a police officer. Thank you. Put me down! Put me down! Help! Help! Somebody help! - Help! - Is that really necessary? If we don't stop this now, innocent people will get caught in their marital crossfire, and I won't let that happen. Good job, Lionel. Yeah, always wanted to be accessory to kidnapping. Multiple kidnappings. It's a good thing it's after hours, because-- Lionel, you were right. There was a Fro-Yo place right around the corner. Oh, these your co-workers? - Hi, I'm Carter. - Rhonda. Nice to meet you. Yeah, I was just catching Fusco up on a case, and now you're all up to speed, I'm gonna leave, okay? Um, yeah. Yup, okay, you're good! Just tell us what you want. We will pay you. We will pay you handsomely, whatever you want. - Do you know who we are? - Trust me on this. We know people who will put you away - for the rest of your life. - Shut up, Sabrina. You are in no position to negotiate with this maniac. Well, at least I'm standing up for myself. You, on the other hand, might as well offer him a cappuccino! Well, forgive me because I want to leave here with all my body parts intact. That's-- Oh. Please take these off. We're sorry. We don't want any trouble. - Little late for that. - Whatev-- whatever you want, just tell us, we will make it happen. Who are you? I'm the guy who stopped you two jokers from killing each other. I don't know what you're talking about. Where's Nestor Santiago? Nestor? You hired Nestor to kill me? The drug-addicted lunatic? You, on the other hand, went upscale, professional. Do you have a contact number or an address? Wow. Wow! You are so selfish. I'm the one who's selfish. When's the last time you did anything for someone other than yourself? Oh, says the good samaritan. Do you know, when you're not in the office, all you talk about are backsplashes and color palettes? I ask your opinion because I want your opinion. You, on the other hand, ignore me. I don't care! How many times can a person redo their kitchen? I liked the one we had three kitchens ago. If you're okay with mediocrity. What is this? Marriage counseling. Why not just dangle them off the roof and force them to tell us how to find the hit men? While John would probably enjoy that option, it would be a temporary solution. We need to make sure the Drakes won't try to kill each other again. Maybe it's time to try a different tack. This is me. That was fun, huh? My first stakeout. Maybe next time I'll even see some action. Next time? Okay. Who's there? - Please, we'd like to go home. - What's going on? If you go home, Mr. Santiago will find you, and your hit man, Mrs. Drake, will likely ha the same plan for finding your husband. Who are you, and why are you doing this? We help people, even when they don't necessarily deserve it. You must think we're monsters. No. I have looked into the faces of real monsters, Mrs. Drake. What I see here are two people who stopped talking to one another, whose frustration turned to hatred. Although, unlike other couples, you've opted for murder instead of divorce. I suppose I should commend you for being so goal-oriented. No, no, you don't look like monsters. In fact, you used to look like you were very much in love. - Are you Grace? - Excuse me? Yes. Hi. Thank you. _ Hi. Chocolate-covered's my favorite. He left you something else. Um, hey, can you hold that? Thank you. _ _ Hey, that's my uncle's beach house. Yeah, and your aunt's awful vegan smoothies. They tasted like rotten peanuts. You were desperate to leave, and said you wanted to go swimming. It was our first day off in weeks. Right, but we forgot our bathing suits. I wanted to go au naturale, but you were worried about those kids. I didn't want you to be arrested for running around bare-ass naked in front of a bunch of minors. You were still pregnant then. Hey! I don't know much about the man I hired, but I'll tell you what I can. I contacted somebody through a private security firm. I wired half the money to a Swiss bank account and got a phone number in return, and the rest was due after. I tried to call it off, but the number stopped working after the book signing. And Santiago? I tried to call him yesterday, tell him I changed my mind, but he always hated you, honey. Yeah, he said I should consider it a favor. Where are we going? You said you want to go home. That's where we're going. You-- you said they'd be expecting us there. If we can't call off the dogs, we'll bring them to us. Come on. Hello. Hello back. Thank you so much for the scavenger hunt. I loved it. Come on up. How did you get us in here? I work as a docent. It affords me a few perks now and then. Oh, thank you so much for today. It was It was perfect. It's not over yet. It arrived last week from an anonymous donor. Happy Birthday. Uh, do you mind if we get the hell away from this window? We're sitting ducks. That's the point, Mr. Drake. Those hit men of yours need to know someone's home. Kitchen is secure. You know, Lionel, next time you have a date, don't be so melodramatic. I thought you might be up to something. Yeah, it's called a personal life. After taking a bullet in the ass and saving yours more than once, you think I've earned just a little privacy? No. You're sure they're even gonna show up? You needed the job done by tomorrow, right? - Yeah. - Before the board votes? Yeah. And neither of you paid the full amount? No. Pretty sure. Should we get guns too? I have a better idea. Wait. - Stay here. - Where are you going? Are you kidding me? Come on! Well, at least we won't get hungry. Hey, where's wonder boy? He's securing the upper levels, just in case Santiago brings company. All this money, and they're still unhappy. Oh, Daniel, what happened to us? Honestly, I don't know. That guy was right about us not talking, wasn't he? You didn't want to discuss anything real after it happened. I wanted us to try again. I asked you. I wanted to try again too. It was just too soon. And then you said maybe I should take some time off, like it was my fault because I was working too hard. I wanted you to stay at home because you'd just been through a trauma, Sabrina, not because I blamed you for anything. Oh, my God! Oh, my God. Is that what you thought? No wonder I couldn't reach you. And I kept pushing and pushing, and-- I-I didn't know. I never actually said it out loud, did I? I just threw myself into work because that was easier than facing what had happened. And next thing I knew, the company was all I had left, and you wanted to take it from me. I had to be done with us. I mean, I am so angry all the time, and-- I know the feeling. I mean, I didn't want to walk away with nothing. Not after everything'd been through, not after the way I grew up. I needed to sell, even if-- Great minds think alike, huh? Danny, if we get out of this When. When we get out of here. Maybe we could-- Is it crazy if we try again? I think it's just crazy enough. I'm so sorry I tried to kill you, honey. Me too. NYPD! Fusco! - No! - Please, don't do this! You can't hide from me, Detective. - Hey, she ain't hiding. - Aah! Are you okay? Yeah. I know better than to forget my vest when I'm working with Mr. Happy. Where is John? Ah! Whoa! - Oh! - Aah! Ah! Oh! Santiago? He and his goons are down. Sorry about the mess. It's okay. I didn't really like it anyway. Coming through. - You got it? - Yeah. I'll call Wes. He'll get us the best lawyers. Brooks will keep things going while we work this out. They're back together? Come on. Love's a funny thing, Fusco. Just another quiet night on the task force, huh? I had to see this party with my own eyes. Thanks for the assist, Beecher. I couldn't have done it without you. I don't know about that. You seem like you can handle yourself. Even so, it's nice to have help - now and then. - If that's the case, Cal Beecher at your service, ma'am. I still owe you one. You know, normally, I'd ask for a bottle of something strong, but, uh, what about dinner instead? Uh okay. - Okay. - Okay.  One of these mornings   won't be very long  Detective Carter says the Drakes were arraigned this morning. They're invoking spousal privilege, refusing to testify against one another. Guess not getting divorced worked out for them after all. Do you know how much time they'll get? With their lawyers? Probably very little. Lot of mayhem just to figure out they still loved each other. I suppose anything is worthwhile when life gives you a second chance to be with the one you love.  One of these mornings  Come on, Bear.  won't be very long   you will look for me   and I'll be gone  What's on your mind, Harold? Oh, nothing. Come on. You always get that look when something's on your mind. I do?  And I'll be gone  Grace, there's something you should know about me and about what I do. Harold, there's nothing you can say that will make me run away, but you should tell me in your own time, when you don't have-- That look? Besides, our journey starts here, and any mystery around the corner we can discover together.  You will look for me   and I'll be gone   and I'll be gone   you will look for me   and I'll be gone
You are being watched. The government has a secret system-- a machine that spies on you every hour of every day. I designed the machine to detect acts of terror, but it sees everything violent crimes involving ordinary people. The government considers these people irrelevant. We don't. Hunted by the authorities, we work in secret. You will never find us. But victim or perpetrator, if your number's up, we'll find you. Pull over here, cabbie. You want to make $500? Give me your number, circle the block, wait for my call. You get the other half when you pick me up. You got eyes on our new number yet, Finch? I believe I do. Fermin Ordoez. Age 38. Born in Cuba. One of New York's Never paid a bill late, and most Americans would be jealous of his credit score. But yesterday, he emptied out every last dime from his savings account. Could be in trouble. Or he's about to get into some. Considering that cab drivers are 30 times more likely to be killed on the job than most other professions, we'd better keep a close eye on him. Again, last night's star-- Because you really never know who's going to step into his cab. - Where to? - 25th and Broadway. But please don't rush. I get carsick quite easily. Uh, in case you do, there's paper towels underneath the seat, yeah? Thank you. Fermin Ordoez. Defected from Cuba in '05. Drafted as a top pitching prospect, till he tore a ligament in his arm in double-A ball in '07. A shame about his arm. By all accounts, he had a wicked curveball. Till life threw him one. From Major League prospect to nobody hack. No doubt, a difficult life transition. Let's see what else we can find out. _ I know you'd rather fiddle with the onboard computer system, Finch, but why not try a little small talk? A little patience, Mr. Reese. Are you talking to me? Yes, actually, I heard about the cab driver that got robbed by his own passenger on 11th Avenue last week. Terrible business. Yeah, you got to be careful who you pick up. Must be tough dealing with complete strangers getting in your car every day. Sometimes. When I look in the mirror at my passenger, I never know if I'm driving around a good guy or a bad guy, you know? I can only imagine. Must make you a good judge of character, though. What do you make of me? That's a nice suit. But not too flashy. Except for the pocket square. But you're polite, neat, a thinker. The vest I don't know, maybe, uh, a professor or-- I know. A librarian, maybe? Why, yes. Of a sort. Keep the change. Really? Thank you. We've got sound, video, and GPS in the cab, Mr. Reese. Stay close to him. The threat could come from any one of 8 million people in this city. I'm right on him. I'm using Ordoez's cell to piggyback on any phone that enters his cab. I know who that bitch is. Nobody does that to me. He's a dead man. I remember when this was farmland over here. I used to shoot rabbits down there, 20 feet away. Quite a cast of characters in the back of Fermin's cab. And not all of them appear to be sober. Hey, amigo, turn on the ball game. Sorry, no baseball game. What do you mean? Game's on right now. - 880 AM. - I can't. The radio's broken. Come on, man! Just put on the game! One more time, we're gonna have a real problem. Hey! You owe me money! Hey! I can't tell if Ordoez has more of an issue with drunks, his car radio, or the game of baseball. After what happened to his arm, he probably just wants to tune it out. Looking into every passenger that gets into his cab-- it's impossible. No priors. No complaints from the taxi and limousine commission. I'm sending you his GPS logs for the last 36 hours. His GPS logs? Which I'm sure you obtained by submitting an official request to the TLC. Not quite. But if it would make you feel better, I could hack into their network and make it look like I did. It would only take me a few minutes. Never mind. I'll check it with the daily crime blotter, let you know if anything pops. Forever in your debt, Detective. Oh, and how did your date go with Detective Beecher? Sounded like it really went well. _ _ I just got word from Elias. He says no more business with with HR. Most of them are either dead or in jail anyway. At this point, you got to wonder who's even left. FBI investigation's wrapping up. My fed contact says Donnelly's been crowing about burying HR. And yet, here we are. Still, we have a larger problem. No one's gonna open their mouth about us. I made sure of that. Make no mistake, my friend. We are just businessmen, and businesses run on money, revenue. That's gonna take some time. We need to read in some new talent. Rebuild. We made a tactical error turning our back on Elias. Even from jail, he is the de facto boss of the city. We need his backing in order to operate. That might be problematic. Set a meeting. Time we make peace, get us walking on the same path again for our mutual benefit. And a suggestion. Should this meeting take a less than cordial turn-- Don't worry. I'll bring some backup. Detective Fusco, it's your lucky day. I'm calling in a chip. We're gonna set up a meet, talk to Elias' guys. Fermin's taking a pit stop, Finch. - Aziz. - Fermin. Hey, man. Do you have it? Yeah, I told you I'd find a buyer for it. Good, I need it. I'm on my way over there now. All right. You don't trust me? Not at all. Okay. Thank you. - Thank you so much, man. - Good luck, my friend. Finch, I think I know what happened to our cabbie's savings. He's carrying it all around with him right now. We must have overlooked something. Does he have gambling debts? Is he dealing drugs? Whatever it is, it's about to go down. Looks like he's about to buy something, or buy his way out of a big hole. Uh, Senor Mendoza. Fermin. _ _ Do they, uh have a safe way to get here? This is the last photo I have of my wife and son. We have a slight problem, Fermin. The price has gone up. What do you mean? I mean, you only have enough money for Maria or Jorge, but not both. No. Senor Mendoza, don't do this. You know it is not safe for them in Cuba anymore. Maria says that the neighbors are getting curious. They sense that she and Jorge are leaving soon. If an official finds out, they will arrest her on suspicion. Fermin, we've known each other for how long? I helped you when everybody stopped caring. Put you back on your feet after the surgery when your career was over. These are prices I do not control. But how am I supposed to come up with another $40,000? It's the land of opportunity, my friend. You'll find a way. Ordoez is a desperate man, Finch. Pushing around his cab for the past five years, saving up to bring his wife and his kid here. Sounds like he just came up short. Who knows what he'd be willing to do to get his family back? I hacked the Cuban Government database. Surprisingly sophisticated software. No doubt, courtesy of the Russians. Don't tell me Fidel Castro's really dead. Actually, yes. And his body double has cancer. The Cubans keep a file on every defector. Apparently, Ordoez pitched for the Cuban national team from 2000 to 2005, when he defected to the US. Wanted a better life for his wife and child. Cuba was a surveillance state long before the advent of security cameras and digital networking. If they catch his family trying to defect, his wife can go to prison. Explains why Ordoez is so desperate to get his family out of there. Desperate times call for desperate measures. Stay close, Mr. Reese. Ordoez turned off his sign. He's not looking for a fare. So who's he waiting for? Acosta! Acosta! Over here, man! Look over here, Acosta! Beautiful family! Rafael Acosta. Plays second base for New York. Rafael Acosta? Of course. They defected together in '05. Escaped from a hotel room in the Netherlands during an international baseball tournament. - Acosta--he's having a pretty good year. Career year, Mr. Reese. He's top ten in OPS among infielders for the last three. You're a baseball reference machine, Finch. You should get out more, take in a game once in a while. Who says I don't? Hey, Raffi. _ _ _ _ Yeah. How's the shoulder, man? Uh, it's okay. Look, man, I-I hate to ask, but, you see, I, uh-- I just need a little help with mi familia, you know? Oh, yeah, yeah. Of course, uh How are they? I don't really know, Raffi. You know, I haven't-- I haven't seen them in a long time. I'm still trying to get them out of there. Here you are, man. Just, uh, toma. Take that. Good luck, Fermie, okay? Baby, let's go. Acosta ended up with the life Ordoez could have had. Now he just wants his family back. Detective, the meeting with Elias' guys is on for this morning. - We'll come and pick you up. - Count me out. You got one too many skeletons in the closet to be calling the shots here. Not to mention, a couple buried in the ground. But they can always be dug up. Fine, I'll be there. You don't need me for this. You got youngblood recruit right over there. Have him twist a few arms for you. Elias knows how to hold a grudge. You're here because if this thing goes sideways, these guys are gonna want something to shoot. That's comforting. Gotta say took some balls, calling a meeting like this. In the shape HR is in, I'm not quite sure what you have to offer anymore. Just your goodwill. Your boss wanted the heads of the five families on a stick. Grifoni's the only one that got away. Last I checked, he was in Witness Protection. And on the back of this photo his alias and present address in nowheresville, suburbia. And in exchange, you want what? Elias' support in rebuilding HR. Hey, it's me. I'm at the meeting. So here's the deal. The boss accepts your offer on one condition. We're not interested in going out and getting him. The boss says you bring Grifoni to us. Then all is forgiven. Consider it done. Okay, cabbie, what were you doing here last night for 25 minutes? Carter! Whoa, now this party's really blowing up. Who called you? Nobody. I was 10/6. But you look kind of lost out here, Terney. - What's the story? - I wish someone would tell me. What we got is, uh this guy. Seems like he's been dead about nine hours. Multiple gunshot wounds. No ID. Just the clothes on his back. Who are the suits? Secret Service. I don't know who tipped 'em off, but they were all over that body the minute we called it in. Detective Carter, Homicide Task Force. Call you back. Agent Regina Vickers, Secret Service. We got an ID on the body? No offense, but this case is "need to know." No offense taken. But, uh, if a body drops in New York City, we're gonna have to ID it. Vadim Pushkov, Russian national. What we're mainly concerned with is if he had anything on his person. Has anything turned up yet? A laptop? A phone? Well, just some receipts, and, uh-- and this. Makes you wonder where the other half went. But we'll keep combing the area. He buys a pizza bagel at JFK yesterday afternoon and winds up dead in Morningside Park at 2:00 AM with no luggage. Any idea how he got here? Town car? Cab? Maybe if we find out who drove him here, we could find the shooter. Or a witness. You canvass the area and we'll check the security cams. We find that car, we'll find out who did this. Excuse me. Vickers here. Hello, Detective. So, GPS put your driver at Morningside Park for a window of 25 minutes last night, right around the time some Russian guy succumbs to acute lead poisoning. And you think our cab driver is connected to this homicide? Figured you could tell me. Along with, why are the Secret Service crawling all over this investigation? I have no idea. But whatever you can find out would be much appreciated. Unlikely, considering they're about as forthcoming with information as you are. I'll see what I can find out. So what do we know about the dead Russian in the park, Finch? Vadim Pushkov. If the Secret Service is involved, he's likely some kind of international criminal. Seems like our cabbie gave the wrong guy a ride last night. Take the 59th Street bridge into Queens. Do you have an address? No address. Just go. I can't seem to access this woman's phone. Either she doesn't have one, or it's currently turned off. They're taking the bridge into Queens. Now take this all the way down and make a right on Vernon. Got a bad feeling about this, Finch. Turn right up here. Strange place for her to be going. One-way street that bottlenecks down the way. This is good right here. They're stopped in the middle of the block. She's isolated him, Finch. Uh, $11.50. First, a few questions. Excuse me? A friend of mine was in your cab last night. Do you recognize him? Uh, I see a lot of people every day. Pushkov. You drove him. Did he leave anything behind? Do not lie to me. Look, lady, I turn in the cab every night. Uh, if someone did leave anything in here, I didn't find it. _ Sorry, I'm not in service. Here's the thing. You're gonna want to give me a lift anyway. Listen, I'm having a pretty lousy day, okay? You mind, uh, just getting out? I'm afraid it's gonna get a whole lot worse, Fermin. I don't want any trouble. Unfortunately, you and I don't have much to say on that matter. Now listen up. We're about ready to be boxed in by two cars. Four to six shooters. I want you to aim for the rear quarter panel of their car, and don't let off the gas, you got that? Now's a good time, Fermin. - Wait, what? - Now, Fermin. Mr. Reese, are you okay? I'm fine, Finch. But I think the real threat just found us. What the hell is going on? Who are those people? Mr. Reese, the blonde who led him into the trap made a call just after leaving the cab. I can't quite make it out. But I believe it's Estonian. Estonian mob. I recognize their methods. It was a kill box. Had a similar experience in Russia. Didn't work out too well for them. Disabled the GPS. Can't risk them accessing it to track you down. Who are you? Just a guy who needed a ride. That woman asked about a passenger in your cab last night. His name is Pushkov. What happened to him? I don't know this Pushkov! I'm just a cab driver! What, you're gonna lie to me like you lied to that woman? There's a big difference here, Fermin. I'm the only one who can help you, you understand? So why are you helping me? Maybe you're an honest guy who just made a mistake. But you need to decide whether your life's worth more than whatever that guy left in your cab. Okay. I picked this guy up near the airport, huh? We drove around for a while. He seemed nervous. He spoke in Russian on his cell phone. - You understand Russian? - A little. My grandfather spoke it when I was a kid in Cuba. It sounded like he was trying to sell something. He called it, uh, "H-said," or-- or-- or "travelers." I didn't know what he was talking about. That blonde lady said he left something in your cab. What was it? I'm not a cop here, Fermin, but if you want my help, you need to tell me what he left in your cab. He left a laptop. He left it underneath the seat. He must have forgot. What'd you do with it? I sold it to a friend for money. Look, I never do that, but-- I drive him around all day and then he stiffed me on the tab. - Finch, are you there? - Always, Mr. Reese. Sounds like this Pushkov had some kind of a deal to sell the laptop to the Estonians. But then he leaves it in the cab? He knew it would be dangerous. He wanted to negotiate a higher price. Clearly, the Estonians were in no mood to negotiate. What in the world could be on that laptop? - Who are you talking to? - My business partner. Estonians don't care if he doesn't have the laptop. They'll kill him just because he knew about it. Just because of a laptop? Because of what was on it, and getting it back may be the only leverage we have to keep you alive. Let's start with the friend you sold it to. Finch, looks like the Estonians have been here already. Aziz? Sorry, Fermin. I sold him the laptop. I got him killed. - Is the laptop still here? - I don't think so. He told me he found a buyer this morning. He paid me my share. Mr. Mansoor sold the laptop before his demise at the hands of the Estonians. They trashed this place looking for it. How'd they know to come here? Pushkov may have installed a beacon that turns on when you power it up. Anyone with an access code could follow it geographically. And they're willing to kill anyone who comes in contact with it. I've gotten into Aziz's email account. It appears that he sold the laptop to an online buyer named "d3mn8." Any way we can track him? If d3mn8 discovers what's on the laptop, he may try to flip it. In which case, he'd probably go to the darknet, try to sell it on Silk Road or one of those black market forums. I'll try to track him down, see if I can negotiate a meeting. What about Aziz? The NYPD will be here shortly Find out who did this to your friend. We better get moving. 'Cause you're gonna be next. Let me guess, your driver confessed to killing the Russian in the park. Not exactly. You want the good news or the bad news? Start with the good. Pushkov was killed by the Estonian mob. They're chasing a laptop he left in our driver's cab. Which explains the Secret Service swarming the body. Why do they want this laptop so bad? Don't know yet, but they're willing to kill anyone who comes in contact with it. Keep an eye out for a blonde. She runs point for them. I'll pull our analytical brief on the Estonians. Now, what's the bad news? They just dropped another body. I'll text you the address. I never should have taken that laptop. Oh, I knew this whole thing was a mistake! No matter what I do, nothing seems to turn out right. You mean, how you chose to get involved with a smuggler like Mendoza? Wh-- Mendoza was our contact. When we defected, he arranged everything for us ballplayers. He brought us all the way to New York. In exchange, he takes a cut of your contract when you get paid? Mendoza said that's the way it worked. He promises the Moon. I thought baseball, this country, was gonna make me rich, but this game you know, it lies to you. And once you got injured, it was over. You can't play, you can't make money. You become a nobody. So Mendoza figured he'd find another way to get his money out of you. - Your family. - Yeah, he said he'd help. But now he's sticking it to me. He doesn't care. Sometimes I wish that I'd never left Cuba. You did a brave thing. Leaving to find a better life for your family. American dream, right? You get a good job, you buy a house. I'd trade all that in just to see my family one more time. To see my son grow up, you know? Ah, he doesn't even know who I am anyway. I can help you make things right, Fermin. But you've got to trust me. Do I have a choice? This CI of yours How does he know the Estonians killed Pushkov? They're hunting a laptop he had on him. You know what's on that thing? - Do you, Detective? - Not yet. But I'm getting a strong premonition that whatever it is, it can embarrass the Government. Am I right? Look, I'm only trying to help. Vadim Pushkov was a lone wolf hacker extraordinaire. We first noticed him five years ago. He stole over 100,000 credit card numbers. The next time he turned up, he hacked into a drone pilot station in Nevada and sold the flight control encryption protocol online to a buyer in Pakistan. So, he showed up on your radar again, and you guys hoped to catch him before he sold whatever he stole. Problem is, we have no idea what Pushkov was up to this time. Afraid to even think about what would happen if the contents of that laptop slipped into the wrong hands. You might want to come with me. Where are we going? Body dropped at a computer store in the East Village. Last guy to sell the laptop. Mr. Reese, my search for d3mn8 continues. But I think I may have discovered what was on Pushkov's laptop. What is it, Finch? Detective Carter said they found a $275 receipt on Pushkov for short-term parking at JFK. $275? Nothing short-term about that. No, and he wasn't flying anywhere. So if Ordoez heard him say "H-said," it's possible that he's speaking about the Homeland Security Automated Identification Database. My best guess is he stole information on a huge number of travelers Addresses, FBI clearances, biometric data. Means they could sneak whoever they wanted directly into the country using stolen credentials. Terrorists could get their hands on this. A breach like that only has value if no one knows about it. Which is why they're killing everybody that comes in contact with the laptop. Uh, my suspicions are confirmed. I found the laptop listed on a darknet IRC channel frequented by d3mn8. He's trying to sell it for $50,000. He's discovered what he's got in his hands and what it's worth. If he lives that long. I'll try to make a buy, set up a meet. Mr. Reese, I've managed to connect with d3mn8 on the black market. We've agreed on a price for the laptop. Sending you the address now to meet up with him for the buy. What is this place? Finch, there's no one here. This place is empty. What do you mean, empty? We may be the only ones in this room but we're not alone. We're being watched. Fusco. Bowman will swing by and pick you up. You two will get the package, deliver it as planned. Hey, listen, I've been thinking about this. I can't do it. I got to keep my nose clean because I'm no good to you locked up. Oh, I'm sure we'd find something for you to do with yourself, Lionel. Besides, you're not that much good to me as it is. No, I'm sorry, I just can't do it. No? Okay, Lionel. You've sealed your fate. _ _ _ Mr. Reese, I've just had a message from d3mn8. He's called off the sale. Apparently, he doesn't like the way you look. What the hell's wrong with the way I look? He says you look like a fed. He's voided the transaction. That laptop may be our only hope of getting Ordoez's life back. D3mn8 isn't as smart as he thinks he is. Now he's in grave danger too. I piggybacked on the signal from his camera and traced it back to where he is right now. I have an address at Yeongson Pool Hall. I guess our Estonian friends are looking for d3mn8 too, Finch. We're gonna be delayed. Mr. Reese? Whoa. I might have to meet d3mn8 on my own. Want to go for a ride? Come on. Yes, Lionel? This a bad time? Kinda. I'll call you back. Yeah? Okay, fine. What time you want to do this? This is the security camera footage we took from the computer store. We have Aziz Mansoor leaving with the laptop. About 45 minutes later, he returns without it. No laptop, hmm. He must have sold it. But look at this. - 20 minutes later - She's in the file. Estonian operator named Irina Kapp. Interpol issued a red notice on her six months ago. She walks out, ten minutes later, Mr. Mansoor dies in a hail of bullets. Hmm. Our little angel of death. Yeah? I'm here to meet someone. Who are you? And what do you want? I brought the money. But you're not him. - You're not d3mn8. - What do you know? I know that he's sitting right over there. And if he's gonna remotely monitor a wireless camera with his phone, He should take better care to encrypt its IP address. Whoa. You don't want to do that. Thank you. Platz. - Let's see the money. - I'm new at this sort of thing. But I'm guessing I'm supposed to see the laptop first. You're not with the Estonians. No, I'm not. You tried to buy the laptop earlier. But I didn't like the way your partner looked. So you arranged to make a deal with the Estonians, thinking they would pay more. You'd be wrong. Small bills. Double your asking price. What's the catch? The catch Albert, is that you leave this very second, disappear, and don't show your face for at least a year. Especially not at your mom's house in Queens, where you presently reside. Take your money and go far, far away. Some very bad people want that laptop. And if they know you've even seen it, they will kill you. So that's the catch, Albert. Then why would you want it? Let me worry about that. Take your money. Go. Now. Sorry, Finch. Got distracted. Where's the pool hall? Did you get the laptop? Yes, I'm here, and I have the laptop, Mr. Reese. But I'm afraid you'd better come rather quickly. I think you have something that belongs to me. Did you open it? I don't have to. I know what's on it. And I know I'll never let you take it. At any price. I do like men with glasses. Too bad. Shoot the dog. I wouldn't do that, fellas. Mr. Reese! Ah! Nice try. Little high and outside, but it still got there. Heel. Good boy, good boy. Hey, Carter you missed all the fun. Where have you been? Feds just got a hit on that blonde woman's cell phone at a Korean pool hall. I'm guessing you guys are there? So you got to clear out. Don't suppose you could give us a ride? Grifoni should be coming out soon. Hey, give me a second, will you? It's my ex. I got to tell her I'm gonna be late picking up my kid. Yeah. Yeah, Fusco. Hello, Lionel. Long time no speak. Hey, what's going on? You called me, Lionel. Remember? I'm calling you back. Yeah, sorry about that. I've been, uh, kind of buried on this case. Yeah, well, we could've used your help on this one too. What do you want? Nah, it's-- it's nothing. Don't worry about it. Everything's fine. Great. Glad we could talk. Gotta go. Yeah, me too. Here we go. You all right? You look like crap. Yeah, I'm fine. Here he comes. We'll take him at the car. Wait a second. Is he laughing? What the hell's so funny, Grifoni? I'm laughing 'cause I ain't the one who's about to get hit. Sorry, fellas. Elias told me you might be coming. Ever since I screwed up, I've been trying to work my way back into his good graces. Kinda like you and HR. Oh, well. And you Elias wants you to take a message back to your pal Simmons and HR. No sign of Irina Kapp anywhere. And no one knows anything about the laptop. It's still out there on the black market. You are not a librarian, huh? Don't worry about your cab. A brand-new one's on its way. And before I forget I owe you cab fare for the day. Think you're gonna like your tip. Agent Vickers, this gentleman's name is Fermin Ordoez. I've been told he was very instrumental in tracking down the Estonians who killed Pushkov and Mansoor. Thank you for your help. Uh, you're welcome. It also sounds like he may have something you've been looking for. Really? Where is it? Maybe he can get it to us, if we can help him out with something. And what's that? It'll just take a little bit of money and some help from the Coast Guard. _ _ _ Good, good. Go back. Well done. Don't know how you pulled that one off. It sure feels good. Yeah. I got my own bag of tricks. Come here. Guess so. But I have to ask you What's going on with Lionel? What do you mean? No reason. I'll keep an eye on him. Thanks. What the hell happened out there? You tell me. 'Cause they knew we were coming for him. We got double-crossed. The part I don't get they shot bowman, but they let you just walk away. 'Cause they want me to send HR a message. Elias said, "go to hell." Quite frankly, I second the motion. Carter. Wait, whoa, whoa, whoa. Who is this? What do you mean by that? Wait, hold on. Whoa. - What's that about? - Anonymous tip. - About what? - Davidson. The IA detective that disappeared last February. Said he was murdered by another cop.
You are being watched. The government has a secret system-- a machine that spies on you every hour of every day. I designed the machine to detect acts of terror, but it sees everything Violent crimes involving ordinary people. The government considers these people irrelevant. We don't. Hunted by the authorities, we work in secret. You will never find us. But victim or perpetrator, if your number's up, we'll find you. Hi, mom. Hi, dad. If you're watching this, you'll know I'm in trouble. I've always tried to be good, keep the rules. Now I'm gonna break them in a big way. Just hold him still. Bear, afliggen! Sit. Well, that was a big help. So, you said we had another number? Yes. Abby Monroe, 26. Honor student at school, degree in engineering. She's worked for the last year at a military charity, Homes For Our Returning Heroes, maybe because her younger brother was killed in Afghanistan She quit the charity a week ago. She's now working as a temp in a city planning office. Any threats? Not that I can see, but some anomalies. She dumped her phone five days ago and moved out of her apartment. In fact, the only way I could trace her was through the temp agency. She's hiding from someone. I'd better get eyes on her. It's your turn to dry him. She could be in imminent danger, Finch. Mr. Reese, he's your dog. You'll manage. - Detective. - Detective. Dinner was fun. What about doing it again? I'm free tonight, as it happens. Sorry. Got a case I'm looking at. Him, actually. Davidson. The Internal Affairs cop went missing last winter. Did you know him? Know him? I had some run-ins with him. What's your interest? I got a tip, anonymous. Said a cop killed him. Whoa. Well, maybe he was mixed up in some HR business. Maybe an HR cop took him out. I heard of one group out of the 51st was offing dealers and selling their supply. You got any names? Most of them are behind bars or dead, but not all of them. Will you excuse us? Detective Carter, we need to talk. I'll catch up with you later. So, with HR degraded to the point of irrelevance, my team is shifting priorities back to the man in the suit. He's still out there. Do you still want to catch him? - Yes, of course. - Good. We have some new information, including who he's working for. Now, the bureau has been tracking the emergence of private intelligence networks, like the CIA or MI6, but for profit. We think the biggest of these has Chinese backing. They've got technology, serious resources, and they've been buying up talent. For instance, we think Mark Snow, the CIA agent who contacted you, may also have been recruited, possibly by the man in the suit. - Really? Snow? - Makes sense. I mean, Snow was sent to find this man by the CIA. He catches him, and then the man in the suit flips him. Gets snow to be his asset. Listen, Carter, I want to read you into this, but it's classified, so I've been authorized to offer you a temporary assignment to the bureau. And I know, with your skills, it'll soon become permanent. Sooner you're on board, sooner I can fill you in. So, please, think about it. I will. Thank you. Thanks. Carter. Hello, Detective. I need to find our friend. We have a big problem. You'll find him at the department of city planning. So he just downloaded the file and walked out? Yeah. Didn't anyone try to stop her? Apparently nobody noticed. Detective Carter. Uh, what do we got? - You heard the 10-31 too, Detective? Yep. So, what is it? Uh, like we were telling Marshal Jennings here-- Marshal Jennings, huh? The manager called it in 'cause one of his staff, a girl by the name of Abby Monroe, downloaded a file illegally. And walked out with it two hours ago. No one noticed till too late. Well, does anyone know what's on the file? Well, we keep plans here for some important buildings, but all she walked out with were some engineering drawings for the 1400 block of Hanover near Wall Street. It's got an electrical sub-station, lawyers' offices, and the HQ of an investment bank. Nothing like a critical infrastructure target. So, does anyone know where this Abby Monroe lives? We ran a check. The address she gave us is fake. The phone number is a pay phone. Hey, solid background check there. What can I say? I mean, she seemed like a sweet kid. Kind of disappointing to find she was a flake. Kids. You never know. Right, Detective? Right. Anyway, good job, following up so quickly. Gentlemen. Thank you, Marshal. Uh, look, if you come up with anything else, give me a call. John. John! Are you out of your mind? Impersonating a law enforcement officer? Marshal Jennings? You took his star? He wasn't using it anymore. It's great, Carter. Just flash a badge, and people tell you everything. You gotta stop, John. Donnelly's back, and he's hot for the man in the suit. He has a new theory. Yeah, that I'm working for China or something. We heard. We also heard his offer. Maybe a transfer to the FBI would be good for you. Do you listen to all of my conversations? More or less. You're looking nice, Carter. Maybe this Cal Beecher would be good for you too. Long as he treats you right. He messes with you, he'll be hearing from me. Okay. All right, look. We're gonna have to set some boundaries here. Well, sure. Things get heavy with you and Cal, we'll tune out right away. Never mind. Um, what's the deal with Abby Monroe? I was checking to see she wasn't in trouble. Looks like I'm a bit late. Carter, can you get me footage from that camera from about two hours ago? And that camera too? Thank you. There's Abby. Were you able to trace the owner of the motorcycle, Detective? No, because it was stolen from a second-hand showroom in Queens four days ago. I got the camera tapes out of the robbery squad. I see the perp is a single male. You looking at the footage now? Yes. Why? No reason. Blew the locks with det cord. Ignored the alarms, 'cause he knew he'd be less than 30 seconds. He broke the key case with his bare hand. Chose his machine. Whoa. That's impressive. What is-- what-- what is going on here? Don't tell me you can see what's on my computer too. What did I say about setting boundaries? That's a prosthetic hand. High-end prosthetic, use of det cord to gain entry into a building. My guess, ex-military. Might explain his connection to Abby. The question is, what are they doing? I don't think you're gonna like the answer. Comp stat just flagged my license plate inquiry. The same motorcycle was seen on a traffic light camera near a robbery at a construction site in New Jersey three nights ago. What was stolen? Explosives. Semtex. and blasting caps. Let's see, theft of explosives, theft of engineering plans for a block on Wall Street. This guy could be the next Timothy McVeigh, and your girl is working with him. He may have manipulated her into getting involved. She's still involved. I'm sorry. I'm gonna have to do my job. I'm gonna have to put her name out on an APB. We've got to find her first. Hey, Olson, you worked at the 55. You know a Narco detective named Cal Beecher? Oh, yeah, sure do. We used to call him Better suits, better cars, better girls than the rest of us. Maybe he just had better taste. Or maybe he was on the take. Did you hear me say that? Don't know. What are you saying? Look, he was undercover narcotics. A lot of buy-and-busts, a lot of money hanging around. Anyway, why you want to know? Ah, I just been seeing him around. Yeah. He's been hanging around Detective Carter. Bees like honey, Fusco. Yeah. I'm just saying, but the way Abby went off the grid, cut all ties, she's planning something, Finch. You think our honor student wants to blow up Wall Street? Well, her boyfriend might. He isn't the first vet to try something extreme. We are an odd bunch, Finch. You are odd, Mr. Reese. You're also wrong. If Abby were involved with domestic terrorism, which would be a relevant crime, the machine would have given her number to-- to whoever now runs that end of things at the government, not to us. Whether she's the target or the source of the threat, the issues must be personal. Fine, but what leads do we have left, Finch? We have two. First, the pay phone number that she gave the temp agency. It's a street corner in Queens. The agency must have been able to contact her there at one point. It might give you a clue as to where she's living. Okay. And the second lead? The one stable point in her life for the last year-- The charity, Homes For Our Returning Heroes. I'll check that one out. Good. You need to get out more. You're in a good mood, Mr. Reese. I am. I woke up this morning and felt-- it took me a while to put my finger on it, but I felt happy. Must be this job. Well, I'm glad. Sorry, Bear. Not now. Abby tapped into that pay phone. I think I've found where our Bonnie and Clyde have been laying low. Josh Monroe, Abby's little brother. I'm an old friend of Abby's family, and as I was visiting New York, they asked if I'd try to find out where Abby is and why she left her job here. She never told them? Well, I'm sorry, but I had to fire her. - Fire her? What on earth for? - Stealing. At first, it was just petty cash, and I let it go, thinking it was simple carelessness, but then I found she was sneaking into the charity's accounts, trying to move money around-- significant amounts. Mr. Chapple, that really doesn't sound like the Abby I know. Well, unfortunately, it's true. We give low-cost loans to veterans in financial trouble. Any hint of a scandal, and our donations would just dry right up. Abby had to go. Hi, mom. Hi, dad. If you're watching this, you'll know I'm in trouble. I don't think you've really been mad at me since I was eight, that time I tied Josh to his skateboard and pushed him down the hill in front of our house to see how fast he would go. Since then, I've always tried to be good, keep the rules. Now I'm gonna break them in a big way. Why? Well, it's complicated and it's simple. I'm doing it because it's right, and I know Josh would agree with me. He was my little brother, but I always looked up to him, and I know that he would be proud of me, just like I hope you are when you know the truth. I love you, and I hope you never have to see this. Any idea why she started stealing? I believe the trouble started when she met a former Marine. Uh, they'd talk when he came by the offices. Somehow, he must have made an impression on Abby, 'cause, just about that time, she started stealing. I don't understand. Why did this Marine come here? I'm sorry. We have a strict confidentiality agreement with all of our loan recipients. Suffice it to say, it was not a pleasant visit. Could you at least tell me his name? Corporal Shayn Coleman, explosives ordinance disposal expert. Lost his right arm defusing an IED in Afghanistan three years ago. He's our motorcycle thief. I tracked down Shayn's parents in his hometown in Ohio. They haven't seen him in more than two months. Did they know he was in trouble? They said he'd had his home foreclosed on, and his fiancee dumped him. Must be why he went to Chapple-- to ask for another loan. However it happened, this is more than enough to tip someone over the edge. He's our guy. I'm adding his name to the APB. Do what you have to do, Detective. Finch, are you still there? Yes. I'm watching Philip Chapple meet with two armed men. What are they like? Like you, to be honest-- low-key and vaguely menacing. I suspect he's telling them to follow me via the GPS transponder he slipped into my pocket as I was leaving. And where is the transponder now? It's on a laundry van with Jersey plates. Nice work, Finch. Obviously, Chapple will take any opportunity to track Abby down. What she's planning must connect to him too. When the charity closes, I'll go back in, see what I can find. When I said you need to get out more, I didn't mean that. Let me take care of it. No such thing as a risk-free life, Mr. Reese, and Abby is still our priority. You wait for her. So, I'll go back in, see what exactly Chapple's hiding. I'm inside, but the alarm has been tampered with. That's because they could be waiting for you, Harold. Ah! What was that? Finch, get out now. Who the hell are you? Who I am is not important, Mr. Coleman. How do you know my name? What are you doing here? The same thing as you, I expect, and since you woke the whole building, we better hurry. I'm on my way to you. Please, just walk away now, Finch. Shh! - Who are you? - It's okay. - Let go of me! - I'm not gonna hurt you. Finch, get out now. Don't risk it. I've got Abby. Just get out of there. Nearly done, Mr. Reese. Please don't do that. Then get off of me. Let me go. Please, no guns. Finch, talk to me. What's happening? The situation is evolving, Mr. Reese. There they go! Stop right there! Get on, or they'll kill you! Get on! Finch, are you okay? Aside from riding on a motorcycle illegally, I'm fine! I'll be in touch! Well done. Hello, Abby. I'm John. Okay, you should leave now, because my boyfriend's gonna be here any minute. Your boyfriend, Shayn? I don't know how you know that, but yes, and he's a Marine, so you do not want to meet him. Actually, I do want to meet him, but first things first. What does that message to your mom and dad mean? What? You broke into my room and went through my stuff? Get out, or I'm-- What? You'll call the police? I know about the building plans and the explosives. I knew it. You work for Chapple. No, but I'm interested to know why you and Shayn are going after him. Because Chapple's a liar and a thief, and I'm not saying another word until you tell me who you are. I'm here to stop you from getting into even more trouble. Not what I asked. Who are you? I find it hard to answer that, even to myself. I was a soldier once, like your brother Josh. But I was lucky. I made it out. - Mr, Reese? - Yes, Finch. What's happening? I've explained to Shayn that we're trying to help him. Did he believe you? No, especially when I told him that you have Abby. Things are a little tense. Let me talk to him. Who is this? You know, Abby keeps asking me the same thing. It's really not important. If you hurt her, you will be sorry. The same goes for you and my friend. We should meet. Once you leave with Shayn, I can't protect you anymore. I never asked you to protect me in the first place. Whatever you're planning, I know why, Abby. You couldn't save your brother, so you're trying to save Shayn. I understand that, truly. I'd feel the same way. Tell me, what did Chapple do to you? Nothing I can't handle, but he nearly destroyed Shayn. - By lending him money? - Yes. Chapple made him a loan. The interest rates tripled in a year. No one could keep up those payments. Millions of people lost their homes. They don't go around stealing explosives. Shayn should move on. He lost his home and his fiancee. He even introduced some of his buddies to Chapple, one of whom shot himself on the porch of the house he no longer owned. Should he move on from that? Look, I went through Chapple's files. I saw what he was doing. There are hundreds, hundreds of soldiers who lost their homes. What are you gonna do, Abby? The right thing. Can I go now? I assume you put a tracker on him. Rather a clever one, if I do say so myself. His prosthetic arm is controlled by myoelectric sensors by way of a wireless link, so I cloned the link and reprogrammed it to attempt a forced pair with every cell phone they pass. Leaving a nice GPS trail. Well done, Finch. Especially on the back of a speeding motorcycle, which was exhilarating, by the way. I might have to get myself one. Working late? Uh, yeah. Um It's always something, you know? Yeah. Is something wrong, Carter? Donnelly made me an offer today. What, I got competition? From that guy? No, not that sort of offer. He, um, invited me to join the FBI. Could be a good move. I mean, yeah, small fish in a big pond, but think of the prospects, Carter, and the money. You should do it. But what about my kid? I mean, it-- it'll probably mean I have to move out of New York. You mean I'd never see you again? It's Cal. No problem. I'll see you then. Uh, now what were we talking about? About never seeing me again. Right. It's Cal. Cal, Alonzo Quinn. Can we meet? Tyrell Park. Say, 30 minutes? No problem. I'm hoping you can help me out, Cal. Any way I can, Mr. Quinn. The Mayor has seen this crime spike in Crown Heights-- drug busts, uh, burglaries, even homicides. He wants me to find out what's happening. I told him I got a godson who's got his ear to the ground. So, do you? Crown Heights, yeah. We think it's a Russian, Peter Yogorov. Used to work Brighton Beach till Elias kicked him out. We believe he's pulling strings from the inside, working to take over the Heights. Boo. What are you doing here, Simmons? I'm keeping an eye on you, you slippery little mutt. What are you doing? None of your business. You're following Cal Beecher. You're checking him out for Carter? No, I've been wondering who else you've been flapping your gums to. About you burying Davidson? Not Beecher. Not yet. You crossed a line when you made that call to Carter, pointing her towards me in the Davidson murder. What line is that? The line where I don't give a crap anymore. So watch your back. You know how many times I've heard that? And here I am, beautiful as ever. Go home, Fusco. What are you doing here, Simmons? I said, go home. There's our cell phone trail. It looks like Abby and Shayn are heading for the 1400 block of Hanover. Question is, what's there? I've listed every business name on the block, cross-checking against the download of Chapple's computer. Bingo. An investment bank, Merton Watts. Maybe he has an account there. Not according to his computer records. - Then a safe deposit box? - What would he keep in it? According to his accounts, Chapple's not rich. Abby said hundreds of the loans he made were foreclosed on. If he's getting kickbacks from the banks-- You may be right. Merton Watts has first lien on any properties Chapple loans money on. That means they handle all foreclosure sales. And split the profits with Chapple, which he keeps in his safe deposit box at the bank. That's what Abby and Shayn are after. Why is she doing this? For Shayn? Yes. And for her brother. She still feels a debt. The dead have a power like that, as you know. So, how are they going to do this? Semtex and building plans. They'll find a soft entry point and blast their way into the vault. I like these kids. I'd like them to live. Please try to get to them before Chapple's thugs do. System's back up. They get anything from the safe? The box code and the keys. But there's no way they can get into the vault at the bank, is there? What do you think? Police band says they stole explosives and engineering plans. Well, get down there. Deal with them. You have to pay for another man. It's a big area to cover. Whatever you need. Just finish it. Carter, I need to see you immediately. Can I have your phone? What's going on, Donnelly? I'm sorry, but I think the organization our man works for has some sophisticated capabilities. Like wire-tapping cops? Has something happened? I think we got our break. The man in the suit was involved in a robbery at a charity on the Upper East Side. How do you know that? Now, before I can let you in, I have to know if you'll accept the temporary assignment to the bureau. Okay, yes. Good. You won't regret it. So, we've been tracking this man for ten months. Every time we get close, he slips right out from under us, as if he has some guardian angel. All I've looked for since then is a lead, any lead, and then I realized, the phone. He's in constant communication with his handlers. I thought of that. Cross-checked crime scenes he was reported at with cell tower logs of IMEIs. - Came up with nothing. - Exactly. Nothing. Our engineers at Quantico analyzed the cell tower traffic from that night he gave us the slip downtown. Under the wireless and radio noise, they found short bursts of a cloned IMEI with a unique signature. I tasked an FBI computer cluster to search for that signature. the cluster came online. It spotted another burst of cloned imeis at the exact time and location of the robbery. It's him. I've got SWAT teams standing by. If he uses that phone, we'll have him. Abby, this is far enough. I'll handle this from here. I'll meet you back at the apartment. No. No, together or nothing. You've risked enough, Abby. This isn't your fight right now. This is my fight. You're my fight. I wouldn't do that. Or that. Now, the truth or I take you to the cops myself. I know you're here to steal Chapple's money. What then? We want to give it back to the people he stole it from. How? We haven't thought that far ahead. You haven't thought very far at all. Now, why not go to the cops or a lawyer? Abby did. She went to the DA, but Chapple got there first, spread his poison. The DA even threatened to prosecute her for theft and slander. When I got to my apartment, one of Chapple's mercenaries was there. He beat me up. He said if I said another word, he would come back and put a bullet in my head. I assume the bank's through there? We blow that wall, we're underneath it. John, this has gone far enough. Has it, Finch? Yes. Stop them. I can deal with Chapple. Chapple hurt them, Finch. They tried the law. The law wasn't interested. What have they got left? Besides, I've always had a thing about people who screw with veterans. John, it's far too risky. What did you say, Harold? No such thing as a risk-free life. Let's do it. Wait for the subway. Now. This is where the safe deposit boxes are. We realized we couldn't get to them from inside the bank, so we decided to bring them to us. You're gonna blow the roof. We got something here. John, what's your situation? Ten more minutes. I'm seeing what I can only describe as interference on our phone link. Is it Root? No, it's a broad spectrum sweep, heavy-duty computer power. Root's more subtle than that. It must be our FBI friend. Stay off the line and please get out now. If Shayn and Abby won't come, leave them. I don't leave people, and they're bringing down a very bad man. Now, isn't that what your experiment's all about? My experiment is about stopping people from getting killed, not robbing banks. Five minutes and we're out. In three, two, one. Let's go. There, 158. His account's in a bank in Venezuela. - Is this what you need? - Is it ever. There's more than $30 million here. His charity stole $30 million. Then let's go, back the way we came. Get down! - You okay? - Karma at last. It's those thugs Chapple hired, isn't it? The bank opens in 30 minutes. We've got to get out before then. Hang tight. Possible underground explosion near Wall Street. We're tracking IMEI bursts in the same area. It's him. Now, we hook up a SWAT en route. - Are you with us? - Uh, yeah, of course. I just need to make a phone call. All right, make it quick. Hi, mom, can you make sure Taylor gets to school? Mom? You been drinking, Carter? Tell Harold, Donnelly is headed to Wall Street. He says John is there. He's tracking the phones. Okay, mom. Yes. Thank you. I love you. Hey, it's Fusco. Wherever wonderboy is, I hope it's not near Wall Street, because that's where Donnelly's heading. That's exactly where John is. Merton Watts Investment Bank, Hanover Street. Yeah, plus Carter said something about him being up on your phones. Just as I feared. Anything you can do to run interference for us at the bank, Detective, I would be most grateful. I take it you know this gentleman? Peter Yogorov, enforcer for the Russian mob. Least he used to be until Elias took out his old man. Seems like something that might be to our advantage. To hit back at Elias? To build another revenue stream. Yogorov's at MCC, awaiting trial with his little brother Lazlo. DA's got him dead to rights on a dozen different counts. Maybe we can do something about that. You need something on the District Attorney? Let me handle that. By going all spartan on our emissaries, Elias has made it clear-- that relationship is over. We need new friends. You want me to talk to the Russians? Open negotiations? They have all the right pieces, but with us behind them, cash flow would no longer be an issue. Understood, boss. Just heard something interesting. Looks like that pain-in-the-ass Donnelly finally caught up with the man in the suit. Not even 7:00 AM, and already a perfect day. The bank's about to open, John. Where are you? Mr. Reese, what's happening? I hate to say this, Finch, but we're in a bit of a pickle here. Get upstairs to the foyer. I have IDs and passes for all of you. Cover us. What are you looking for? Clothes. You need to get changed. We're gonna dress up like bankers. We're gonna climb up there and walk right out the front door. Come on. Base just picked up another burst of comms from the target. - Same location? - Yes, sir. So, you can track him, but you can't hear what he's saying? Do you know who he's talking to? Not yet. Give me the gun. You take Abby. You've done enough. I'm the one who got us into this mess. We all got ourselves into this mess. We're all going to get ourselves out. Now, when you get up to the foyer, look for Harold. I'll be right behind you. Now. Looks like nothing's going on inside. No, the signal's still active, and the 911 call said the explosion was underground, remember? He's in there. All right, one team in front with me, second team, around the back. We move in 30. Excuse me, ma'am. I'm a client here at the bank. I need to get into the vault now. Hello. Here. Take these. My name is Harold Wren. I own an insurance company. You are my associates. We have an appointment here. Where's John? FBI! Everybody back against the wall! - Stay where you are! - Don't move! - Hands up! - See your hands! Foyer's secure. Check every ID. No one leaves. Half your men here, half with me. Yes, sir. Let's go! Hands where we can see them! You! Don't move! - See your ID, please? - John, can you hear me? Shayn and Abby are safe. FBI are in the bank. Get out now. We got company. Lose the weapons and get the hell out. John, can you hear me? You must get out now. Blew out the damn floor. Alpha, this is Delta. Vault level is secure. I'm not gonna make it, Harold. Sorry I screwed up. But I meant what I said yesterday. So, thanks, Harold. It was fun. John? ID? Harold Wren, Universal Heritage Insurance. My associates. Why are you in the bank? We have a meeting with the vice president of Corporate Strategy. ID. Did you get what you wanted? All the money Chapple stole. More than $30 million. Can you do anything with the accounts? Yes. I'll empty them, deposit every last cent into the accounts of reputable military charities. Would that do? Then I have to get you out of here and out of this state. As long as we're together. Check the top level. Check down back. Don't worry. I got you covered. What about John?  It's just a shot away   it's just a shot away   baby   it's just a shot away   it's just a shot away  We finally got you.  It's just a shot away   it's just a shot away  Sir, there's a problem. Step back.  It's just a shot away   it's just a shot away   yeah, yeah, yeah  Well, do you recognize him? Uh no.  Gimme, gimme shelter  Cuff 'em all.  Or I'm gonna fade away   war, children   it's just a shot away   it's just a shot away   it's just a shot away
You are being watched. The government has a secret system A machine that spies on you every hour of every day. I designed the machine to detect acts of terror, but it sees everything Violent crimes involving ordinary people. The government considers these people irrelevant. We don't. Hunted by the authorities, we work in secret. You will never find us. But victim or perpetrator, if your number's up, we'll find you. This is subway train operator 4827. There's been an accident. I couldn't stop the train in time, and I hit a kid. I think he might have been pushed. Open. I want 'em held in isolation. Not with their lawyers, not with each other, not with anybody. This is a matter of national security. They're terrorists? They look more like investment bankers to me. Well, warden, three of them may be. But one of them is the most dangerous criminal I've ever pursued. I can hold them for 72 hours without charging them, and I fully intend to. Then you have 72 hours. This is Rikers, not Guantanamo. You don't plan on asking them any questions? Don't worry, Carter. We've got the DNA evidence from new Rochelle, we got the blood from the burned car, and, thanks to you, fingerprints. He's ours. How did I know the federal government would be no match for you? As I suspect it might be compromising for you to be found with a phone, I'll be brief. The matter is in hand, John. We'll get you out of there. I took too many risks. It's my fault. I'll handle it. Listen to me. I made preparations for a scenario like this. In 72 hours, you will walk free. What if another number comes up? Unfortunately, as I told you, they never stop coming. I'll have to manage as best I can. I sincerely hope our next conversation is under better circumstances. I'll be in touch. My name is Mr. Swift. I'm your substitute teacher. Ms. Benthem received a last-minute opportunity to attend an all-expenses-paid teaching seminar in Maui. I see in Ms. Benthem's lesson plan that today we're doing Addition. That can't be right. It's busywork, punishment. We're supposed to add all the numbers from one to a hundred. You know, in the late 18th century, there was a math prodigy named Carl Friedrich Gauss who was faced with the same tedious problem that you are. He figured a way around it. One to a hundred. Who'd like to take a crack at working out Gauss' equation? Anybody? Mr. Phipps? Uh I got to be honest, "Mr. Swifty," you lost me at "Friedrich." I'll give you a hint. - Fusco. - Good morning, Detective. I trust that you received my email? And the entire roll call for Brooklyn science. I need you to tell me everything you can about Caleb Phipps. Couple run-ins with the NYPD. Typical kid stuff. - Nothing exceptional. - I'll say. and test scores that sit squarely in the mid-range. He spent my whole class doodling in his notebook. Hey, you still there? Please continue. One thing did come up. Caleb had an older brother Ryan, killed two years ago in a subway accident. Kid was drunk. Slipped on the tracks and got clipped. Sounds awful. Any further details? I'll pull the incident report. Now Caleb lives alone with his mom. She's an administrative assistant in Kensington. Hey, Caleb. You going to that party saturday? Uh, no, that's not my kind of thing. Oh. Besides, I'm heading out of town. Taking a trip. They never seem to stop texting. Beginning to feel like I'm on another planet. Get used to it. Their planet's gonna be running ours in about ten years. High schools are different nowadays. Gang fights, drug searches, and pregnancies. This kid could be into anything. You weren't exaggerating about the drug problem. Kids ain't what they used to be. Be careful in there, pal. I-I won't even ask. Probably best. Besides, we have more urgent matters to discuss. Our friend in Rikers. I have the situation in hand. I don't want you crossing some kind of line to do This? Already deleted them from the network too. That line you're talking about, I crossed it a long time ago. Now we have to deal with the DNA sample. FBI keeps it in a secure lab here in New York. I know what to do. But I'm gonna need a couple things from you. This is principal Lawton, reminding you that the Brooklyn school of science & humanities closes promptly at 5:00 P.M. Thank you. Mr. Swift. A word, please. It has come to my attention that you tried to show Ms. Benthem's students how to get around one of her assignments. Well, the assignment seemed a bit remedial. - I was hoping to teach - Teaching is Ms. Benthem's job. Your job is to ensure that her students do the work that she prepared. Don't sweat Lawton. She thinks schools would run better if they just got rid of the students and teachers. Chris Beckner, computer science. Harold Swift. - Nice to meet an idealist. - No, no, not me. Throw all this stuff online, I say. Let me teach in my boxers. Run wild, man. I believe I will. Yes, Detective Fusco? Do you have some new information for me? Yeah, as a matter of fact, I do. I took a look at the report of his brother's death. - Caleb was the only witness. - He was there? His brother died right in front of him? Yeah, but something's not right. I looked at every incident report that night. The transit cop called for a backup, to dispatch, and then canceled the request. Why would a policeman rescind a request for backup? That's what I'm trying to figure out. I'm waiting on the transcripts to find out why. Maybe it's time I go meet Caleb's mom and find out what his home life is like. Interesting. Caleb's latest national aptitude test score is exactly 50%. A statistically improbable score. Unless you try to get it. You see, Caleb knew the answer to every question. But he chose only to fill in every other one. I don't get it. He tanked on purpose? Why would you want to hide the fact you're a genius? Why, indeed? Caleb, a word? I couldn't help but notice this. No offense, Mr. Swift, but now you're going through the garbage? Pi. Can any of you tell me what it means? I'll settle for an intelligent question here. My friend has a question, Mr. Swift. "What is any of this good for, and when would we ever use it?" Let me show you. Pi. The ratio of the circumference of a circle to its diameter. And this is just the beginning. It keeps on going. Forever. Without ever repeating. Which means that contained within this string of decimals is every single other number. Your birth date, combination to your locker, your social security number. It's all in there somewhere. And if you convert these decimals into letters, you would have every word that ever existed in every possible combination. The first syllable you spoke as a baby, the name of your latest crush, your entire life story from beginning to end. Everything we ever say or do All of the world's infinite possibilities rest within this one simple circle. Now what you do with that information What it's good for Well, that would be up to you. NYPD, ma'am. We're investigating a string of burglaries in the area. Talking to residents about things they might have seen or heard. Mind if I come in and ask you a few questions? I'm running a little late. So you, uh, you live alone? With my son Caleb. We don't have a lot of room, so Caleb takes the couch. Uh, that's work. Just give me a sec. So you and your son see anything suspicious lately? Any strange comings and goings? Anyone who stands out? Nothing I can think of. Cops come a few times a year. It's domestic stuff mostly. Some families have it rough, you know? Yeah, I know exactly what you mean. Thanks for your time. Yes, Detective? I planted that webcam for you. Met Caleb's mom. Late for work, rolling out the door with the shakes. My guess is she's hitting the bottle. No wonder Caleb doesn't care about his grades. Anything new on our two dealers? Diego Velasquez and Ronnie Samms. Used to deal for a guy by the name of Lorenzo. Type of guy you don't wanna cross. But now they're working for some new up-and-comer that narcotics hasn't been able to identify. I tell you, that school's a real minefield. Okay. Gonna keep your mouth shut, right, chief? Yeah, sure. Except to say this. The next time you decide you want to deal E to a kid who's clearly never bought in his entire life, do it in the locker room downstairs, because this jumpy fool is a neon sign shouting "drugs ahoy" Chief. That's enough! Unless you want to settle this in the principal's office. Are you okay? I don't need your help okay? "Hacker" used to refer to industrious coders who pushed the boundaries of modern computing. Then that word became misappropriated by those who pushed the boundaries so far that they ended up with jail time. Like Kevin Mitnick, back in the 1980s. He was just trying to see how stuff worked. Mitnick was looking for flaws in the system. And he did so by breaking the law. But he proved people were the flaw, not the code. Now they're paying him millions for the same thing that got him locked up in the first place. Perhaps the most notorious hacker of them all was the one that got away. Back when Uncle Sam was trying to maintain IriTrip on the budding Internet Or Arpanet, as it was known then This hacker, this coder, hacked into the system and laid its secrets bare, ensuring that the Internet would become an open forum. Plus that hacker made his mark without ever getting busted. True. Whoever it was, that person's still out there. Hey, I'm checking on the boy genius. Not you, the other one. Turns out he's quite the little coder. He's been coding a massive program. In longhand, he doesn't have a computer at home. Then he writes it into a computer in the lab. If the partial code I've discovered is a snapshot of his work What he's creating Could be groundbreaking. Detective Fusco, can you do something for me? I need you to follow Diego and Ronnie. Caleb had a run-in with them today that might lead to trouble. - Is there a history there? - Hard to tell. But Caleb seemed to take an outsized interest in their drug dealing. If someone's pulling their strings, I'd like to know who. Finch, whoever this drug dealer is, he's careful. Detective, how goes phase one of your plan? I got the package you sent over, but if I'm gonna wade in this pool, I need the right specs. Yeah. Sending them to you now. Our friend in Rikers is counting on you. - Okay. - Knock 'em dead, Detective. They won't know what hit 'em. Wow. Hi, I'd like to have The first one, on me. How are you doing? Thanks, but, um, I'm looking for something a little more Specific. Detective Fusco, our Young man is on the move. Give you a ride home? Car is right down there. I'd like that. I have to admit, you kind of threw me at first. Asking all those questions about my background, my health. I couldn't tell whether we were flirtin' or fillin' out my medical history. I'm a practical girl. I like to know what I'm getting into. So are we Getting into anything tonight? I am. Ooh, I don't know what happened, but I didn't even have that much to drink. Yeah. Open wide, big fella. I've been following this drug money all night. Diego and Ronnie handed a bagful of it to a homeless guy, who I followed till he dumped it off at a money transfer place. The worker there wired it to another money hub across town, where I hoofed it over there just in time to see some other guy pick up the cash and drop it in a P.O. box right here in crown heights. Our mysterious drug lord is laundering his money, making it untraceable. Well, not untraceable enough. Whoever comes in for this cash is our guy. Where are you anyway? I'm looking at you. Thought you were following the kid. I am. - Here you go, sir. - Thanks. Well, I'll be damned. Our mystery drug lord is Caleb. Graded your quizzes. Some of you have been paying attention. Caleb, I expected better. Pssh. - What did the kid do now? - Caleb just got a message. He's supposed to meet his supplier at 2:00. We have to follow him. Tricky little bastard, keeping his identity a secret. He's better than most dealers twice his age. I'll be sure and tell him how impressed you are with his criminal aptitude. Beckman just broke into Caleb's account, Detective. He copying a file named 17-6-21 onto a thumb drive. Whatever Caleb's making His teacher's interest in it Is far from academic. Oh, Mr. Phipps! Look, I'm kind of on my way somewhere. I just wanted to return something of yours. You dropped this yesterday. You really got to stop going through the trash, Mr. Swift. You know, I used to do a little coding myself. That's an elegant string you have. But it occurs to me that if you want to implement multi-threading, you'd do better to use atomic variables. Just a thought. Wait, that That works. Yes, that's why I suggested it. Uh, thanks. I hope you have your service weapon with you, Detective. Yeah, I got you a machine gun too. Very funny, Detective. Let's try not to lose him. Yo, Roman. You here? Oh, jeez. Whoa. That's what you came for, right? So tell me Why would a kid like you do something so stupid like dealing at a school in my neighborhood? That's Lorenzo, all right, Diego and Ronnie's old boss. What's the plan? Crap. You know, before he had his little accident here Roman was telling me how you're just trying to score some bank to take a big trip. That true? Yeah. You pay back every dime you made selling to my customers, I'll let you leave town intact. Be back here tomorrow night, 8:00 P.M., or I'll come find you. How do you expect me to score that kind of cash in a day? Relax. All right, I'll Rob a bank or something. I like you. You got brass. But you don't show tomorrow night Break a lot more than your legs. Kid's got it tough. But picking a fight with a drug dealer? A dumb move for a genius. Why would a Young man with such potential risk it all just to get some easy drug money? I don't think it's about the money. I think it's about the brother. Dispatch transcripts from the night Ryan Phipps died. Now the transit cop who filed the report called for backup Because Caleb initially reported that two youths got into a shoving match with Ryan, pushed him onto the tracks. But the officer canceled the backup call and filed an accident report instead. Why would Caleb change his story? Maybe he knew the killers. Maybe he was thinking about taking care of them himself. Diego and Ronnie? He's manipulating those morons. Got 'em running drugs for him, and they don't even know it. What's Beckner so absorbed in? That's Caleb's work. Howard, it's Chris. Can you still meet up tonight? I think you'll be impressed with what you see. Great. I'll see you there. - Change of plans, Detective. - Let me guess. You need me to keep an eye on little Einstein, myself, tonight. Keep me posted. So, Mr. venture capital firm partner Junior partner. Long way from the corner office. Still have to watch my step. - Pick my projects carefully. - I get it. When you see this Well, then, let's Let's just see it, Chris, so I can get back to my wife and kids. What the hell was that? The library of congress. What? On one thumb drive? The Internet's choking on streaming video. They're gonna need a new compression algorithm to continue growing. And I've got it. All I need is an investment from a firm like yours to help me get it off the ground. So here's the thing, Chris. I remember your code from back in college. You were a medium talent at best. There is no way that that Chris Beckner designed something this extraordinary. Unlike our old friends, I didn't peak in college. So no one else knows about this project? Programmers? Developers? No other entanglements? I can guarantee it. Well, let's hope so. Because I would hate for anyone to come between you and what I believe is going to be a very large check. Finally tracked down that transit cop, Murphy. The one who was first on the scene when Caleb's brother died. Left a message for him to come down to the eighth after his shift. Speaking of which, where's the kid now? He's moving money around, large amounts. Getting the cash to pay off Lorenzo? No, he set up some kind of a trust, and he's pouring all his money into it. Maybe he's thinking about taking that trip he's always talking about. Beckner just texted Caleb. He wants to meet at 8:00 tonight. The same time he's supposed to meet Lorenzo. And quantum physics notwithstanding, he can't be in two places at once. Unless I'm right, and this kid's got a plan, time's running out on two fronts. Maybe skipping town's the best thing for him. Then we could focus some on getting your pal out of lockup. Mr. Reese can take care of himself, Detective. And right now, he's in very capable hands. Detective Carter, time is ticking away fast for our friend in Rikers. Don't worry. I know what to do. Here you go. Mm. Sorry, honey. I'll be better tomorrow. I promise. Yeah. Everything's gonna be better tomorrow, ma. Detective Fusco. I just want to remind you that I need your help tonight. Caleb has two appointments, and we have no idea which one he intends to keep. I'll be there. You wanted to speak with me? Yeah, have a seat, officer Murphy. Like I said, I'm, uh Working on a cold case. Commuter got pushed. Looking for related cases, this popped up. Ryan Phipps. Says here you were first on the scene? Yeah, that's right. Kid was six months shy of his 18th birthday. Coming home with his little brother Caleb. Ryan was horsing around, drinking a little bit. Slipped on the tracks and got clipped. Yeah, yeah, I remember. It was a rough one. Because it was a kid? Or because you didn't report the whole story? I know about the kids who pushed Ryan on the tracks. I'm no Detective, Detective. I'm just a lowly transit cop. I seen a lot of things in my time. And I made a lot of decisions I regret. This is not one of those times. You may regret it when Caleb becomes a killer. What are you talking about? You think revenge is gonna make Caleb feel better about seeing his brother die? You're a long ways off, Detective. Then give me some directions. You know, I did to the kid what you're doing to me right now. When I asked him for descriptions of the other kids Kept changing it up. There were no other kids. No. Just two brothers drinking. Bored. Waiting for a train to go home. So they dare each other to, uh cross the tracks. You know, how many times you can cross back and forth before a train comes? Well, Ryan doesn't want to lose to his little brother. One kid makes it, the other kid doesn't. I don't know who got the better deal. So I told him I'd leave all that out of the report, write it up as an accident, and for him to keep it to himself. So no matter what he had to tell his mom Or the cops, or God himself Nothing was gonna bring his brother back. What can I tell you? Some things you can't fix. Hey, I just talked to Murphy. The brother's death was an accident, but it sounds like Caleb blames himself for it. Well, that's a problem, Detective, because I lost Caleb. He got on a city bus, and it left before I could catch up. You're kidding me. May I remind you that of the many things I'm equipped to do, pursuit would not be chief among them. Our only option now is to wait for Caleb at the two places he's likeliest to turn up. I'll stake out beckner at the High School. You keep an eye out for our aggrieved drug dealer. Get everyone, and hunt that kid down! Our boy is a no-show, and Lorenzo wants his head. You worry about the kid. I'll take care of Lorenzo. He's not here either, Detective. I may be too late. Swift, what are you doing here? I was gonna ask you the same. - I-I left some papers on - Stop it! I saw you break into Caleb's account and copy his files. Is that what you're willing to stoop to? Stealing the work of a student and passing it off as your own? I am not gonna stand here and be accused of plagiarism by some substitute teacher. Besides, why would I copy work off of a "C"-grade student? Because Caleb is anything but average. And you know it. That's why you took his work to your friend. Caleb Approached me a few months ago about this project he was working on. I was skeptical, but when I saw his code I couldn't believe my eyes, so I decided to help him. - By cutting him out of it. - No. All he wanted was some money up front for this trip that he wants to take. Said he didn't even want any credit. Why on earth would you agree to that? I didn't. Read it for yourself. Caleb gets all the credit. It was just easier for me to Pitch the idea with him myself Get some capital And then reveal the true brain behind it. He offered me half if I put the other half in a trust that he set up for his mom. But I'm giving him the whole thing. All the money from 17-6-21. It's the name he gave the program. He said it was some kind of dedication. Look, I am telling you, six months from now, Caleb is going to be the richest 18-year-old in the country. No. No, he won't. Dispatch? Officer Murphy, regarding the subway fatality. on the backup request. Cancel backup request? Affirmative. This seat taken? What are you doing here? You're so smart, Caleb. Ask me something you don't know. The thing about being reckless Taking chances Is that you make a lot of mistakes, cause a lot of grief. Gonna start lecturing me on mistakes? How I need to live and learn? Move on? That's really inspiring, Mr. Swift. I'd stand up on my desk and clap for you. But No. Your mistakes, like mine, are part of who you are now. You can't move on from that. Believe me. I've made a sizable number. But Sometimes your mistakes can surprise you. My biggest mistake, for instance Brought me here. At exactly this moment When you might need some help. and 21 days into your life. The age at which your brother died. The age you've chosen to end your life too. So, you see Maybe you and I are connected. Two reckless people. Yeah? Then what's the use? We're just gonna keep breaking things Over and over. Why not save everyone the grief? The thing about the world is that it doesn't have any extra pieces. It's like pi. It contains everything. You remove a single piece No circle. Your recklessness, your mistakes, are the reason why, when they say "you can't change the world," you won't listen. The world is better off with both of us in it, Caleb, - rather than the alternative. - Yeah? You sure about that? Yes, and your mom is better off with you in it. If you think money can replace you You haven't seen the whole equation. Take it from someone who thought that leaving would make it easier on everyone And then learned otherwise. Say it to me again. Slowly. According to the lab results, none of the DNA we took from these four men matches any of the DNA in our database. They're clean, sir. All four of 'em. I want every one of those samples sent to Quantico, reviewed through codis, and inspected for tampering. They got to it. I don't know how, but those bastards got to it. Go. One more thing. Get me Carter. You really ought to be more careful with your code. Thanks. I grew up during the Cold War When computer networks were just a gleam in the eye of the department of defense. Things seemed more black and white then. Arpanet was the new frontier. Till a kid with a homemade computer turned the whole thing inside out. All I'm saying is It's a new era now, and things are about to get really weird. So you should keep your code close to your vest. And pick your friends wisely. Pi. The first 3,000 digits. My number's in there somewhere. You're smart, you'll figure it out. Wait, uh, the hacker. The one who got away? How'd you know he did that with a homemade computer? I've read all that research. No one's ever mentioned that. I must have heard it somewhere. Detective Carter? Has our friend in Rikers been released? Almost. I'm going to meet him now. Your DNA wasn't a match for whoever they're looking for. We'll be processing you out momentarily. Stop right there. These men have all been classified as "unlawful combatants" by the AUMF. Until we can establish that they're not a threat to national security, they're not going anywhere. Put him back. Just the person I wanted to see. What is going on? I thought the evidence cleared these guys. The DNA, the fingerprints, it's all too neat. I've been burned too many times trying to bring this man to justice. There's only one person that I know I can trust anymore: You. You've been chasing him from the beginning. And we've only got one shot left at him, Detective. If he walks out of here, we're never gonna see him again. I know you were a senior interrogator in Iraq. It's time to put those military skills to use. I want you to interrogate every last one of these men. Find out who they are, what they know. Start with him.
You are being watched. The government has a secret system. A machine that spies on you every hour of every day. I designed the machine to detect acts of terror, but it sees everything. Violent crimes involving ordinary people. The government considers these people irrelevant. We don't. Hunted by the authorities, we work in secret. You will never find us. But victim or perpetrator, if your number's up, we'll find you. The man in the suit, you still want to catch him? Yes. Of course. John? Not going to make it, Harold. Sir, we have a problem. Your man in the suit, we got four of them. Cuff them all. We've got the DNA evidence from New Rochelle, got the blood from the burned car, and thanks to you, fingerprints. He's ours. I don't want you crossing some kind of line to do-- This? Already deleted them from the network too. Now we have to deal with the DNA sample. What's going on? I thought the evidence cleared these guys. It's all too neat. There's only one person that I know I can trust anymore. You. I know you were a senior interrogator in Iraq. I want you to put those military skills to use. Start with him. You're being held as an unlawful combatant, under provisions of the AUMF, the NDAA and the Patriot Act. You will be detained indefinitely and denied access to legal counsel until your true identity is confirmed and it is determined that you are not a threat to national security. So if you ever want to get out of here, you need to start answering questions. - Wonder-boy, that you? - Afraid not, Detective. What the hell's going on? Carter's supposed to be back from Rikers by now. No one's returning my calls. Yes, we're all very busy at the moment. It's just me, Bear. You're busy and I'm warming the bench. I mean, come on, you gotta need something. Are we gonna bust John out of there or what? Oh, it sounds like such a bad idea when you say it. But right now I need your help in another matter. I'm sending you the name and address of a young lady in Brooklyn. She's about to be involved in a very bad situation. Let me get this straight. John's ass is on the line and I'm stuck dealing with some dumb-- Yeah, I got this. My name is Devin Clark. I own a pest control company. I just went in there to apply for a business loan. And then I hear this loud boom and what sounded like gunshots. So I thought the bank was being robbed. I ran for the exit and the next thing I know, I'm being arrested. That still doesn't explain why you were in that basement. I was down there inspecting the property. I'm part of a venture capital group, we're considering an investment in the building. Okay, mister What did you say your name was again? Holt. Vincent Holt. I'm an attorney. And regardless of any constitutional gymnastics you people think you can pull, when we're done here, my attorneys are gonna shove this whole thing right down your throat. You're being watched, you know. The longer you wait to talk, the more guilty you look. So let's start with your name. John Warren. Just like it says on my license. Okay, Mr. Warren. Mind telling me what you were doing in the bank Monday morning? I was meeting clients. I'm an investment banker. When I heard the explosion, I saw smoke coming from a stairwell. I used to be in the military, so I went down to see if I could help. I could hear shots fired, then your SWAT team knocked me to the ground, cuffed me before I could even explain. Basically from that moment on, treated me like I'm some kind of terrorist. Look, I don't know why I'm here, or who you think I am, but I have a life I really need to get back to. And if they won't let me see a lawyer, you're my only hope. Please. I just want to go home. _ Where are we on the rogue operative you've been tracking? In process. There's another player at work here. I want them shut down. Find that operative and make him disappear. I'm on it. He's a hard man to locate. Not according to the FBI. They think he's one of four suspects being held at Rikers. Then I'll remove all four. NYPD! Drop the gun! Hands above your head! You said hours. It's been days. If you're gonna keep bending the rules, I can easily-- I'm not "bending" anything, warden, but in my time here I've noticed no less than 15 serious infractions of New York regulations governing the care and treatment of prisoners, so perhaps you should tend to those before threatening me. Look, I want to un-cuff these guys. Carter, one of these men is a highly trained covert assassin. I need him to trust me. So we got four stories and four IDs that pass background checks. So either someone's lying or we got the wrong four guys. If I'm right, the man we're looking for is backed by a powerful private intelligence network with resources comparable to any government, and they could certainly create an airtight cover for one of their operatives. I'm not gonna let the man in the suit slip away just because his license checks out. Now, Clark, Watts, and Holt all live out of state, and I've got agents checking their homes and businesses. But Mr. Warren apparently works right down on Wall Street. What say we make sure that address isn't just an empty office? - Come on. - Okay. _ _ How long has he been working here? At least two years. I've been at his desk since last September. What's this all about? When was the last time you saw him? Mr. Warren hasn't called or come in for days. I've been worried sick. Do you know where he is? Check IDs on her and everyone else in the building. Clone the hard drive, photograph everything, and dust it all for prints. Yes, sir. It's a nice office, isn't it? When you cook up a cover, you don't mess around. John Warren is our friend's clean cover. We never use it for work. It's the most complete identity that John has, and it most closely matches the details of his true past. But John Warren is still an illusion, the incomplete footprint of a man who doesn't exist. If we make a mistake, or if Donnelly spots a single flaw, we and the work that we do will be in very grave jeopardy. John's not the only one in danger, Detective. You are too. This is a hell of a pep talk, Finch. Look, the other three suspects still think they're being held for the murders they were going to commit, but as soon as they figure out Donnelly's actually looking for John, they'll give him up in a heartbeat. I say let's pin this on one of them. I'm so glad we're on the same page. I've been working to identify our three mercenaries. If we can hand Donnelly a name and a military background for even one of them, it might get John released. And if that doesn't work, I'm engineering an escape plan. Yeah, well, you better work fast. Maybe Fusco can give you a hand. Wait a second! No! I'm a cop! What are you doing? - Why are you following me? - Aah! You are with the bad Armenians, aren't you? What are you doing? I'm a cop! I'm here to help. - Oh, God, my eye! - Fusco's busy, Carter. I think I'd better handle this. Carter. - So what do you think? - Looks pretty damn real to me. But maybe that just tells us how long our man's been undercover. Look, from now on, I want you to wear this. It's a wireless earpiece linked to my laptop. It's so I can feed you questions and info during your interrogations. It'll help us be a better team. Together, we're gonna sift through their lives with a fine-tooth comb. _ - Got them straight off the servers at Wright-Patterson. All you need is a factory and you'll be launching your own combat drones inside of six months. - Oh, my God. - I'm sorry. The front desk must have given us the wrong key. Do you know the penalty for treason? The look on their faces. I should have brought my camera. Can we just do this and go? Okay, John. If we're gonna be partners, you're gonna have to lighten up. It's my first triple homicide. Didn't know I was supposed to prepare jokes. These aren't murder victims. These are enemy combatants. But yes, we are killers, John. That is our job. And if you want to be good at your job, you're gonna have to learn to love your work. Have you ever killed anyone? Have you? Playing games doesn't help your cause, Mr. Warren. - Answering questions does. - That's right, Carter. Keep him on the defensive. Now, have you ever killed anyone? Yes. In the army in '95. I was in Bosnia for the IFOR peacekeeping mission. We were on patrol near Kladanj. Middle of the night, I sneak off the road to take a whiz in the woods. And there's this Serb militant with a bag of land mines, AK pointed right at me. It misfired. That's the only reason why I'm still here. I jumped him before he could pull again. We thrashed around in the dirt. And I broke his neck. Really don't like talking about this. Keep pushing. You hit a nerve. How long did you serve in the military? '95 to '01. I was a sergeant in Old Ironsides. Got out just before 9/11. Seven years. Long time. Yeah, my dad was career army. - What's your dad's name? - Conrad. That's enough about dad. Get back to the dead Serb. He's vulnerable there. - So you were a military brat? - Ah, kind of. My mom's family owned a farm just outside of Sumner, Washington. I stayed home with her when my dad was overseas. He got out when I was 11, came home to run the farm. So where did you serve? You didn't ask what Old Ironsides was. Warrant Officer. Ivy Division. Deployments in Iraq and Afghanistan. Let me guess. You were an interrogator. Guilty as charged. Excuse me. - Is the earpiece not working? - I'm building rapport. That's how you get good intel. Would you rather I waterboarded him? Of course not, and honestly, everything he's said checks out. So you think we might be digging in the wrong spot? No. To catch this man, Carter, I'd dig all the way to China. We need to hit the other three just as hard. But we need to work fast. Powerful forces have already sabotaged this investigation. We need to know who's who before someone strikes again. Turn around, please. Spread your arms, open your mouth, stick out your tongue. - Ever serve in the military? - No. Ask where he went to middle school. Where did you go to middle school? Pullman, Illinois. Robert Goddard. - What was your name again? - Devin Clark. - And where were you born? - Akron. Who are you working for? I don't know what you're talking about. - What's your address? - 713 East 66th, apartment 5B. - Middle name. - Benjamin. What's his birth date? Hometown? Social Security number? Sarasota, Florida. What was your MOS? I told you I wasn't in the military. Then how the hell did you know what an MOS was? Now what's your damn name? Brian Kelly, ex-Navy SEAL. You can read him his rights now. Let's go. You have the right to remain silent. Anything you say can-- So that's it. He's our guy. Unfortunately not. While our man in the suit was committing homicide in New Rochelle, Mr. Kelly was in Iraq. Now that he's been identified, the public safety exception no longer applies. So one down, three to go. food and exercise. Well, well, well. Look what the cat dragged in. You know, this is the bastard that stole my dog. Let's be honest. He wanted to leave. Yeah, you're also the reason I'm stuck in this dump. Is there a problem here? No. Nothing that can't be fixed later. Someone wants to see you. Hello, John. _ Deux Kirs Royaux, s'il vous plait. Tres bien. - What did they do? - Who cares? Orders are orders. Just making sure we have the right target. They just look like two people in love. Maybe they are. Or maybe they're just better at playing their cover than you. Would it kill you to kiss a girl every once in a while? Alone at last. Time to get to work. So, John, your past finally caught up with you. Whatever the circumstances, it's lovely to see you again. Relax. Right here. It's a dead zone. No cameras can see us. Can't have Agent Donnelly spying on our reunion, can we? I know all about his hunt for the "man in a suit." Personally, I think they could've come up with a better name. Are you going to turn me in, Elias? And lose Harold as a chess partner? I was pissed for a while, but the truth is, John, you'll always be the man who came out of nowhere and saved my life. I want you to think of me as a friend, and when I see my friends in trouble I want to help, so Well for starters, don't protect me. Donnelly used to think I was working for you. Hey, well, it's not for lack of asking on my part. See that guy over there? Yeah. You want us to kill him? I'm not so sure you could. I've got a hunch he's a lot like me. You want to help? Get a picture of him to Harold. If there's another player at the table, I'd like to know who we're dealing with. You and me working together. Very exciting, John. Come on, there's a precinct two blocks away. - No! No police! - Okay, what's this about? Why do they want you dead anyway? Here. Here. Here. Right here. Right here. Thank God. I could use a hand right about now. Actually, I was hoping for your assistance, Detective. I'm sending you a picture of the man who is incarcerated with our friend. Fusco, the Armenians. I was wondering if you could use NYPD's resources to identify him. Him? That's easy. That's the government spook who was sniffing around when Corwin got shot. Okay. Thank you, Detective. Any chance you can give us a hand with these Armenians that want to kill-- Do you have any enemies? Well, I'm pretty sure the guy behind that mirror isn't a fan. Push for details. Find the questions he doesn't want you to ask. Why did you leave the military? It was time. Yeah, but a lot of people who felt that way wound up re-enlisting right after 9/11, but not you. There's a point where if you stay a soldier any longer, you won't know how to be anything else. So I got out, went back to U-DUB for my MBA. And after college, where did you work? Let's see, there was Pacific Capital, Cambridge Securities, BPC. - You moved around a lot. - I guess I was drifting a bit. Job to job, place to place. Damn near broke for a while. But then, a good man found me and gave me a purpose. Who was that? My current employer, Howard French. Keep him talking. I'm running a background check on Howard French. Don't worry, Detective. Howard French will check out just fine. Oh, and I've hacked the link between Donnelly's computer and your earpiece. But rest assured, you're the only one that can hear me. How did you and Mr. French meet? He found my resume online. Called me in for a meeting. And then he told me who he was, what he did. Asked if I wanted to help. You can call Howard and ask him about me. I'm sure he's wondering where I am. Come on out, Carter. One of the other suspects is ready to talk. Excuse me. All right. I know what's going on here. I've been waiting two damn hours. And if you're not talking to me, someone else must be talking to you. Screw that. Nobody rats me out. My name isn't Devin Clark. It's Charles MacAvoy. And you give me immunity, I tell you anything you want to know. Can't give you immunity until I know what you did, Chuck. So let's start with what you were doing in that bank. Donnelly. You ever been to New Rochelle, MacAvoy? No. Are you now or have you ever been an employee of Ansible, Worldstrat, or any other private intelligence firm? Donnelly, look, you're showing all our cards. Shock and awe, Detective. We need to know he's our man before we even consider a deal. Are you the person the police call "the man in the suit"? What the hell are you talking about, man? One of the men you were picked up with is a highly trained operator with an agenda all his own. You tell me who that individual is and you'll get your deal. - What the hell's going on? - Fire alarm. Everybody out. No! We're in the middle of something! Pardon the interruption, Detective, but I thought now might be a good time for me to test my access to the building's fire alarms. I need you to drop your phone in MacAvoy's pocket. Now. Your name is Charles Bennett MacAvoy. Your lovely wife and two little girls live in a palatial estate just outside of Houston, Texas. Your monthly mortgage of $4,200 is easily affordable, considering that you have 6.2 million in a Cayman Islands account. An account that I've just drained to zero. The money was payment for illegal mercenary activities, crimes that I doubt you were prepared to divulge to Agent Donnelly. So the question for you is who would you rather make a deal with, the FBI or me? False alarm! Everybody back inside! Who the hell are you? Blanket immunity. You tell me what I want to know, and it's yours. This guy, right here. What the hell, man? Someone got to you, didn't they? What's going on? Brian Kelly, he just hung himself in his cell. Between that, this glitch in the fire alarm, and the fact that MacAvoy's hands are sweating now when they were bone dry and I don't trust anyone anymore. Someone has been tampering with this investigation since it started, and if he's saying it's Holt then I think it's Warren. _ Just got intel on our next gig. Seems like you could use some leave. We could be a few days late. April in Paris? What do you say? I'm fine. Time to decide. Which man do you want to be? The boy scout or the killer? 'Cause I'm sick of working with both. Nobody made you do this. You chose this life, remember? But if this isn't you, if you want to be a nice man with a nice job, all you have to do is ask. I love my work. All right, Carter, get in there with Warren and break him. You still haven't told me why you left the military. You still haven't told me if you ever killed anyone. Stay on offense, Carter. Don't let him control the conversation. And remember, Detective, not so fast, please. I can backfill almost any detail that John throws out, but it takes time. When is the last time you left the country? I was in Mexico for business last May, so the 3rd through the 5th. - Ever been married? - No. - Live with anyone? - Why? You interested? Get him to name a girlfriend, someone he's been in a relationship with. Hold that thought, Detective. It's a tad difficult to create an entire person. It may take me a moment. I'm sorry, how many more questions am I going to have to answer? Tell you what, I'll answer one of yours, then you answer mine. Have I ever killed anyone? Yeah. First time was the worst. They kicked the door, I had about 15 minutes to break a suspected terrorist before the insurgents showed up. But this night, someone failed to clear a room. I saw a man with a gun, raised my weapon and fired. To this day, I don't know if he was a terrorist or just a guy who woke up at the wrong time. Okay, ready when you are. Ever been in love? Once. Allison West. There's your answer, by the way. To what? Why I left the military. When the planes hit the towers, I was with Ally in a hotel room in Niagara Falls. I had just gotten out of the service. But as we sat together on that bed, watching it all go down, I knew I had to go back. And I looked at her. She was quiet, trying to be strong. I don't know, I-- maybe I was scared. But when I looked at her, I saw this whole other life. A life I knew I'd never have if I went back. So I stayed. What happened? I was an idiot. Let her slip away. I instantly regretted it, but it was too late. It's funny how the choices you make change who you become. Pick one path or the other. Hear an explosion at a bank and try to help, and suddenly-- all these years later I still wonder if I had re-upped when the towers came down who would I be now? We've been in here for hours. Do we have anything that proves Warren's not who he says he is? There's one last test we can try. Just what kind of test is this exactly? One of my people spotted the Aryans hassling Warren earlier, so if we let nature run its course, maybe the man in the suit will show us his combat skills. Are you crazy? You'll start a riot. I'd like all the guards out of the yard. Now, please. Are you scared, fish? - Come on! Get some! - Yeah! Come on, fight back. Yeah! He's had enough. Okay, get up. Let's go. What the hell happened to you? You used to be good police. Ever since this thing started, you've been bending the rules I believe that this country is under attack And this is not right, Donnelly. - By an invisible enemy. - You are over the line! I will do whatever I have to do-- All you have to do is watch. Get Vincent Holt back in that box! Your name ain't Holt. And you're no lawyer. You're a mercenary. Ex-special forces. Probably Delta. At least that's what your buddies Kelly and MacAvoy told us. Now see, they were smart. They got a deal. But since you won't give me your name, I can just gitmo your ass. Packer, Wayne F. Now get me a lawyer. I don't believe you. Can you offer any proof that's your real name? I said get me a lawyer. Not while I still think you're a threat to national security. Come on, soldier, what's your mission here? Kelly already told me you set the explosives in the bank. It wasn't us. But you just admitted you were with him. So now I got you on conspiracy. Your only play is to roll up on your boss. - So who are you working for? - I'm not your rat. A response that suggests that there is in fact a boss to rat out. - Screw you, bitch. - That adds contract killing and a whole bunch of Rico stuff. Now you want to give me the name of your boss or can I just charge you as the man in a suit? Aah! That's your man, Donnelly. You have the right to remain silent. Anything you say can and will be used against you. You have the right to an attorney. Coming out. Open on one. I'm ready, Detective. I've emailed you the details of my plan for John's escape. All you have to do-- Won't be necessary, Finch. Situation's under control. And by the way, you owe me a phone.  The sun shines   People forget   The spray flies   as the speedboat glides and people forget   Forget they're hiding   The girls smile   and people forget  Looking for someone? No one in particular. Fusco didn't want to celebrate my release? Finch has him tied up with something. Only one of us are gonna get out of this. When I start shooting, you run like hell and don't look back. No, Lionel. Save yourself. You ready? Get ready to go. I just want to say thank you. I couldn't have got through this without a friend to talk to. So was any of it true? Oh, I sincerely doubt that. Congratulations, Carter. You just caught the man in a suit. Drop your gun. Hands in the air. It's over, John. Got your bracelets, Carter? Put them on your friend here. See? I told you we'd catch him. But I'm afraid that's the last collar you'll ever make. I trusted you, Carter, and you threw it away along with a very promising career. I'm sorry. It was my fault. Actually, John, it's not. This little game you two have been playing, you didn't give it away. She did. And now I'm going to find out exactly who you are. We believe someone inside the Pentagon sold a secure laptop containing some of the source code to a Chinese firm. We need the laptop returned. - Where are we going? - Ordos. It's a company town in the middle of China. Reese, after you secure the package, you're to retire Agent Stanton. I haven't seen that look in a while. - Everything okay? - Absolutely. Whatever it is, lock it down. I don't need this guy. I need the killer. Listen, Kara, there's something you need to-- Sorry, John. Nothing personal. Something funny? I got the same orders as you. Thank you, Lionel, for everything. Call me. - What? - We have an emergency. I'm sending you Carter's last known coordinates. I'll meet you there. Apocryphal. Charlie. Tango. Toward. Mark. Whiskey. Where are you taking us? To a safe house, where I'll contact a friend at Justice, figure out how to proceed with your prosecution. No backup? You're going it alone, huh? Well, Carter, I don't know who to trust anymore. When the man in a suit-- when John here slipped away the first time, I knew he had a mole, somebody on the inside. And then when his fingerprints went missing and his DNA got switched, I was forced to consider it might be you. And I'll admit, you played a pretty good game until I put him in the yard alone. And that's when I saw it in your eyes. Genuine concern. How did he turn you, Carter? What was your price? No price. Just helping a friend. Then you've been played for a fool. Recruited as an asset by a private intelligence-- You don't understand, Donnelly, he's a good man. We're helping people. Oh, God. Is that what he told you? Wake up, Carter. Your friend is nothing more or less than a highly trained murderer. You don't wind up with that job by accident. He chose that life. He chose to become the monster he is. And now you've made your choice too. Oh, no. - Agent Donnelly, stop your car! - Who is this? I'm the partner of the man in your backseat. I have a source that tells me you're in grave danger. And trust me, my source is never-- Aah! Hey, lover. Miss me?
You are being watched. The government has a secret system, a machine that spies on you every hour of every day. I designed the machine to detect acts of terror, but it sees everything. Violent crimes involving ordinary people. The government considers these people irrelevant. We don't. Hunted by the authorities, we work in secret. You'll never find us. But victim or perpetrator, if your number's up, we'll find you. - Agent Donnelly, stop your car. - Who is this? I'm the partner of the man in your back seat. I have a source that tells me you're in grave danger. Hey, lover. Miss me? _ _ Finch. Detective, are you all right? We were ambushed. She killed Donnelly and took John. Are you injured? No, I'm just handcuffed. You have to focus now. Find the keys. Okay, wait. W-w-wait. Hello? Detective, did anyone see you with John and Agent Donnelly? I don't think so. Then you need to get out of there, now! I can't just flee a crime scene, Finch. I understand, Joss, but things will get a lot more complicated if you don't. Listen, Finch, the woman who ambushed us, I think it was his partner from the CIA. The one that Snow said was dead. Finch! Yes, I'm aware of who she is. Now go, Detective. Kara Stanton. What is it that you want? Welcome back, John. Kara. I thought you were-- Dead? I wasn't very good at it. Of course, neither were you. Our friend here, on the other hand, who sent us to kill each other, I suspect he'll be great at it. - John. - Mark. Looks just like mine. Welcome to the party. I know that look you get, John. Right before you do something disruptive. You may not care about yourself, but you've got enough semtex duct-taped to you to spread a lot of misery around. And before you think about disarming that vest just remember I've got you both on speed dial. So what's this about, Kara? I thought I'd get us all back together for one last little bit of field work for old time's sake. You were never that sentimental. I wasn't, was I? You and Mark are gonna run a few errands for me. Execute your tasks in a timely manner and you will remain intact. So what's this really about? This is about three dead little spies in a brave new world. It's about the afterlife, John, and us negotiating our places in it. - Hello? - There you are. You don't answer your cell anymore? I, uh, lost it. What's up? A call came in this morning. An FBI agent was found shot. It was Donnelly. He's dead, Carter. What happened? The feds are trying to find that out. They're asking for you. They say why? They knew you two were working a case together. Um I'm on my way. Hey. Have you heard from our mutual friends? Why? Glasses sent me out looking for you and wonderboy last night. Said it was some kind of emergency. Hey lose an earring? Oh, guess I did. Excuse me, are you Detective Carter? Yes. SAIC Moss. - Talk to you a minute? - Sure. When was the last time you saw Special Agent Donnelly? Uh, yesterday at Rikers. Anything out of the ordinary with him? He seem concerned or troubled? No. Why? That case, your suit guy. Donnelly was spending a lot of time on him. Seemed convince this guy you were chasing had backing inside the government. He mention that to you? Not that I can recall. The superiors at the Bureau were concerned he was getting paranoid. That he might have lost his perspective. What do you think? I think Donnelly was a good agent. I appreciate your assistance on this, Detective. I'll be in touch. You okay? Yeah. You sure? You wanna tell me what's going on? I don't know if I can. But I know someone who might. Kara Stanton's work history, aliases, prior addresses, financial records, and her death certificate. Unfortunately, the most relevant part of her life is the one we know the least about. After she was declared dead. Snow knew Stanton too. When I caught up with him after he broke into that tech company, he mentioned a woman. Said she was planning something big. What was it he was looking for at the technology company? He stole a hard drive. I'm gonna need everything you know about that drive from your report. The only way we can help Mr. Reese is to try to figure out what she planning to do and for whom. Well, when I saw Snow, he was wired with a bomb vest. I guess it's fair to say that wherever John is, he needs our help and quickly. Who are we meeting? Don't worry about it. You're just picking something up. You coming in or what? You guys dirty cops? Feds? I'm guessing feds. Do you have what we came for? Good to go. Formatted to your boss's specifications. I don't see many high-end government rigs like this one. Your boss, she must have very deep pockets. Let's have the drive. The price has gone up another $50,000. Make a counteroffer. Break his neck. I believe you've been paid already. I believe you have my price. Kill him, John. No. Okay. I'll just, uh, hang on to it then. Maybe see what I can get for it. Now get the drive and get moving. And, John? That's your last warning. We believe someone inside the Pentagon sold a secure laptop to a Chinese firm. We need the laptop returned. Where are we going? Ordos. It's a company town in the middle of China. Reese, one more thing. After you secure the package, you are to retire Agent Stanton. She's been compromised. You're telling me to kill my partner? Noticed you're not joining us on our little Far East getaway. This one's strictly a two-man job and for good reason. Over the past couple of months, it has come to our attention that Agent Reese has been compromised. And as his partner-- You want me to take him out? We clean up our own mess, Kara. I'll take care of it. Time to wrap this up, John. Listen, Kara-- Sorry, John. They told me you'd been compromised. I got the same orders as you. - You are clear to engage. - Engaging. Good. You're awake. Where am I? You're in the afterlife, my dear. I won't talk. I wouldn't want you to. You need rest. Besides, I already know your name, Ms. Stanton. In fact, I know almost everything about you. Where you're from, who you work for. How you ended up in that bed. Information is my business. This is what your government sent you to find. Something they were so eager to destroy that they were willing to kill you too. Do you know what it is? An answer to a very interesting question. Would you like to know what that question is? I don't care. No, you don't, do you? That's why you and I are gonna get along. You should eat something, John. You may not get another chance. I don't have that much of an appetite. Mark was like you at first. So was I when I woke up half-dead in a hospital in Dongsheng. You can't control anything around you. So you fight back in whatever little ways you can. Like refusing to eat. But in time, you accept your fate like Mark here and have a hamburger. I'm just not that hungry, Kara. But when I do fight back, you'll know it. Something funny, Mark? You're both damaged goods. Having the two of you take each other out wasn't just efficient. It was poetic. So why the cruise missile? Had to be sure. And how's that working out for you? See you next time, huh? That's your cue. The men at the counter. Follow them outside. You're going to steal their car. Pretty sure they'll object to that. So change their minds. Or should I deal with them my way? Hey, fellas? You got the time? That's enough. I said enough. I'll play along with Kara's little game. But killing civilians isn't going to be a part of it. Clear? Fine, John. What do you suggest? This guy's carrying. They're ATF agents. And now you are too. You're being temporarily reassigned. Answer the phone, John. But be smart or I'll make it impossible for anyone to tell where you end and Mark begins. Yep? Baker, we've got a situation developing over at 780 Mercer. Need you and Louis to check it out. Will do. Time for you boys to go to work. Take the jackets, lose the phones. _ We'll get him back, Bear. I promise. Yes, Detective? So the hard drive Snow stole from Fujima is from a small batch. Uh, model number DH-950. It's NSA certified. This model is made exclusively for government and military installations. What would Stanton want with it? If I had to guess, it's to store something highly sensitive or dangerous. Listen, I've just received a text from an unfamiliar number. It reads UXO. UXO is the military designation for unexploded ordinance. Mr. Reese. He could be wearing a bomb vest. Sending you the number. You ed to track down the location it was sent from, Detective. I'm on it. Clear this area! Lock down the street as soon as you can. Come on, come on, come on. Space! Need everyone out of here right now! I think I know what kind of situation we're responding to. Bomb threat. Couldn't resist. Now use your cover to get inside the building. Go to the elevators. Get in the right rear one. Just go that way, yeah. Keep moving. Hold on, fellas. Bomb Squad's running the show. They go-- We don't answer to the Bomb Squad. What can I tell you? It's SOP. You know what just a half pound of semtex can do to a building like this or the people in it? - No, but I got-- - Well, I do. And the longer you delay us, the more likely it is you're gonna find out. Now get out of the way. Detective, did you find them? No, but they were here. They followed two other men out. It turns out the phone that sent the text belongs to an ATF agent. He and his partner were just called to a bomb threat at 780 Mercer. A bomb threat? It's an office building, Detective. Mostly commercial and corporate tenants. Oh, no, this is interesting. What is? The building has 21 floors, but the directory only lists 20. to a Stillwater Imports. Except Stillwater Imports doesn't appear to have any ongoing business activity. This is a shell corporation. I'll keep looking into it, but whatever Stanton's after, I bet it's in there. You're going to the 21st floor. The elevator only goes to 20. The access pad. Enter this code, 0-5-1-5-7-3. What's up there? The 21st floor is a level 5 DOD facility. Unfortunately, the men guarding it won't leave it for something as routine as a bomb threat. And they're not gonna be very happy to see you boys. Damn it, Kara. Come on, John. Didn't you miss this? The three of us working together? What are we looking at? If I had to guess, two Delta Force operators with M-4s trained to fire if those elevator doors open without authorization. Delta Force for guards? Where the hell are we? Safe house for high-level defectors? Bioweapons lab maybe? Son of a bitch! What did I say? These guys get free, they're gonna kill us. They're just doing their job and I don't know them. The only person here I'm pretty sure deserves to die is you. I guess you have changed, John. I hope your conscience doesn't get us killed. Enough. Time is a factor in this next stage, gentlemen. And there may be some signal interference inside the facility, so we'll have to change your incentives a little bit. Good morning. I was going to have them turn on the English captions, but then I remembered you're fluent in Mandarin. Don't your bosses at the Ministry of State Security have anything better for you to do? My dear, if you think I work for the government, I really must fire my tailor. Then who do you work for? You read the classics at Annapolis, Kara. Do you recall The Titans? The Old Gods? They were so afraid of the New Gods-- their own children-- that they ate them. You work for the Old Gods, Kara. And they betrayed you. They were willing to kill you because they're afraid. They have an inkling of what happens next. If you don't work for the MSS, then, why are you here? Because unlike the CIA, my organization still thinks you could be very useful. You think I'd work for you? If I break your neck, can I go back to watching TV? No, Kara. I know you wouldn't work for us. Not for money. But as I said, money is not my business. I can offer you what your old employers couldn't or wouldn't give you. I can give you an answer. You merely have to tell me the question. Who? Who did this to me? Precisely. Not your old boss, Mark Snow. I have a fairly graphic idea of your plans for him. But the person truly responsible. The person who sold the laptop in the first place. In exchange for what? Do you remember how The Titans were finally killed? Before they could eat their youngest child, Zeus, they wrapped a boulder in his swaddling clothes, then watched as his father choked on it. We're in position. The first thing you'll hit is the security desk. Take out the cameras, alarms, and erase the last two hours on the backups. I'll tell you where to go from there. We're in. In what is the question. You're looking for a technician with high-level clearance. Try the temperature-controlled room labeled "Applied Research"" Go. Let's go, folks. I don't see them anywhere. Must already be up there. Carter. Detective, hello. I have information on your restricted floor. I can barely hear you. Sorry about the noise, but I had to relocate to a place with better wi-fi anonymity before hacking the Department Of Defense. You hacked the DOD? Stillwater Imports is a cover for their Cyber Security operations center. What is that? Officially their role is to monitor and protect sensitive government networks against cyber terrorism. And unofficially? They're developing weaponized malware like Stuxnet and Flame. You may recall they were used to sabotage Iranian nuclear centrifuges. - Cyber warfare. - Yes. Wait. That's why Stanton needed the hard drive. Why? She's gonna have them steal a cyber weapon. With that, the people that she's working for could shut down a country's power grids, cripple their communications, or worse. We're gonna have to stop her, Detective. I'm working on it. We gotta get up to that floor. You think the Bomb Squad boys are gonna go for that? Good luck. We'll just tell 'em we're gonna help 'em clear the stairs. What? Wait, that's 20 floors. That's it. I was right. Bioweapons lab. Not bio. Electronic. That room's a scif. Built to keep any wireless or radio signals from getting in or out. Your tax dollars at work. You need to get into that room. Mark can take it from there. What's in there, Kara? Just get inside and don't drag your feet. Or you'll detonate? You do and you'll blow up your plan along with us. Fond as I am of you, John, don't make me remind you just how expendable you are. See you tomorrow, Jimmy. We're gonna need you to put in some overtime. Quiet. - Who are you? - Hey, bud. Do you guys have any idea where you are? Just give us a hand, would you? Log in. Get the drive. Mark, we don't have to do this. Yes, we do or we're dead. No, there's no signal. She can't hear us. We can figure out a way to stop her or at least a way out of these vests. I've tried. - There isn't one. - Well, there has to be. We don't have time. - Show him the servers. - This way. I'll let you know when I find a bay for the drive. - What's your name? - Kevin. I'm gonna try to get us out of this alive, Kevin. But I'm gonna need your help. Hello? - It's me. - Mr. Reese. I don't have much time. I'm in a DOD facility. I got your text. What is she having you do? Stealing something, I think. I think she may be aiming to steal a cyber weapon. Cyber weapon? - What's on these drives? - Uh Kevin if we're gonna survive this, you need to trust me. Information warfare units. Viruses, worms, military-grade malware designed to infect and destroy enemy computer networks. That's why these machines aren't networked. Yes, nothing in here can be allowed to get out there. She may be looking for a project with a code name "Cygnus." What is Cygnus? It's a new super virus. In the wrong hands it could cripple major civilian networks, our own defense systems, even kill the entire internet. Which means it could be used to shut down the machine. I won't let that happen. Harold, I need you to stay clear of the building. What are you going to do? Mr. Reese? Is there a way to erase these drives? Only if there's a security breach to the system. Then its failsafe is to wipe the drives. _ _ What are you doing? Destroying Cygnus before she gets her hands on it. What are you talking about? You're gonna get us killed, John. We'll see. Put that drive back in. Not gonna happen. Break it up, boys. Kara. I knew you wouldn't follow orders, John. Just like in Ordos. - You lost your nerve. - You're too late. I erased the drives. _ Never were one for the bigger picture. Were you, John? All I wanted was for you two to clear a path for me. Nicely done. Get the drive. Let's go. See, I'm not looking to take anything from this place. These boys are at least a generation behind. _ No offense. I'm more interested in giving them something. What is this room? Where we monitor the government's most secure networks against cyber attacks. From here she could reach-- Everything. _ What have you done, Kara? My job, John. Kara, listen. I know how you feel. I was in Ordos too, remember? And, yes, we were burned, betrayed but we survived. You've gotta let it go. It's not too late. You can end this. Oh, John. I plan to. I meant what I said before. About missing this. But it's true what they say. You can't go home again. So long, fellas. Can you override the door? No. But I can overload the room's power supply which should cause an emergency shutdown. Still locked. Battery backup must have kicked in. Over here. Stay put. We'll never catch up with her. We need to get clear of any civilians. We can get up to the roof-- - God, Reese. The whole self-sacrifice bit? Beginning to wear a little thin, don't you think? Agency's got a safe house less than two blocks from here. It's a long shot, but it's all I got. Even if you made it, you think the agency would take you back? In their eyes, you're compromised. Think about it. All that's waiting for you is a black hood. Good luck, John. - John! - Carter. You need to get off this floor right now. No, we need to get you out of that vest. - You can't. - I saw enough of them in Iraq. Get her out of here. John, please listen to me-- There's no time. You've got too much to lose. No, John, you are not doing that. Lionel? - Carter, he's right. - Get off of me. Think of your son. John. You don't have to do this. You know I do. Because you'd do the exact same thing. Thank you. Both of you. Come on, Carter, let's go. Come on. So I see I'm not too late. I should have known you'd turn up here. I told you to stay clear. Which is how I knew you'd put yourself in a situation like this, Mr. Reese. Stay where you are. Here. Find out what's on that hard drive and stop it. Will you just let me-- What are you gonna do? Shoot me? This is my past catching up with me. It doesn't concern you. But this moment does. I'm not leaving you here, John. So can we please stop wasting time? Well, let's see what we've got here. Have you ever defused a bomb vest before? Can't say I have. But I believe I grasp the basic principles. Well, that's encouraging. It appears that she's wired the phone to a capacitor-based trigger. If the phone is called, it will charge the capacitor which will, in turn, release it's charge in a single-- - Finch. I'm sorry. This is my process. Can you shut off the timer? I can't get at the battery. I need to hack the phone's lock code. Can you do it? I have built some of the most complex computer systems in existence. I can certainly unlock a phone. All phones have a universal unlock code based on their model and the unique IMEI number. Okay. For this phone, it's one of five combinations. Well, that's good. The problem is we only get three attempts before the phone permanently locks us out. That's not. I take it that one didn't do it? Sorry. Okay. - Hello, Kara. - It's done. Yes. So I see. Nicely done. We'll take it from here. Now I want what you promised. The person who sold the laptop that took you on your unfortunate trip to China. Or fortunate, depending on one's view. The name. I'm afraid a name is all I have for you for someone who seemingly does not exist on any known database. Perhaps you'll have better luck in your search than I did. Go ahead. What? Something you said once. About how sooner or later we'd both probably end up dead. I'd prefer later. After all, I'm the one that got you into this in the first place. I'm pretty sure I'd be dead already if you hadn't found me. It's hard to say. Not really. Pick a winner, Harold. You were right, Kara. About me being dead. I'm gonna be great at it. Must have been a dud. Guess Snow retired after all. Hey, boy. Hey, hey. Detective? Agent Moss. What brings you by? We identified the suicide bombers who broke into the DOD facility. Apparently they were a couple of rogue CIA agents. Agency's not saying a peep, but we think they went pro. This one, Mark Snow, fits the description of your "man in a suit." Really? We believe Donnelly was on to them. They found out and killed him. So does that mean the Bureau's case against the man in the suit is-- Closed officially. As for Donnelly, we'll deal with the agency on our end. - You take care, Detective. - Thank you. Hey. Everything okay? We'll see. The hard drive tell you anything? Nothing yet. Whatever she uploaded, the encryption is remarkable. I can only assume that the malware it's protecting is equally sophisticated. The only thing I've been able to decompile is when it's set to go live a little more than five months from now. What happens then? I suppose we'll find out. Finch? Thank you. Please, don't mention it. Well, I'm afraid a name is all I have for you for someone who seemingly does not exist on any known database. Perhaps you'll have better luck your search than I did.
You are being watched. The government has a secret system-- a machine that spies on you every hour of every day. I designed the machine to detect acts of terror, but it sees everything Violent crimes involving ordinary people. The government considers these people irrelevant. We don't. Hunted by the authorities, we work in secret. You will never find us. But victim or perpetrator, if your number's up, we'll find you.  Uh, oh, uh, oh  Hey, yo, pick right, pick right. Your mama just called, Opie, told me to take you to school. Yeah, did you get your popcorn ready, man? 'Cause I'm about to put on a show. - Oh, yes! - Hell, no. You might have blocked that if you hadn't tripped on your skirt, Bigfoot. You lucky you're funny. You said our latest number dropped out of college? Logan Pierce left Caltech after his sophomore year, yes. He had other aspirations. No layups, no layups. Get that weak stuff out of here. No way, son, that was a foul. Ain't no fouls out here. Guessing it wasn't to become a professional athlete. Been real. I gotta jet though. I got a date with your girl. Yeah, yeah, whatever. Make it rain! Later, bitches! Who the hell is this guy? Pierce is not just a college dropout. He's a self-made billionaire with a genius IQ. Started a social networking site called friendczar.com with his best friend from college. Thought you invented social networking, Finch. Pierce perfected it. His site has just shy of a billion users. Pierce's Chief Engineer and Front Man for friendczar.com, his longtime business partner Justin Ogilvy is the money and marketing guru. And they started the company together? That's right. It would certainly not be in Ogilvy's best interest to have Pierce turn up dead now. They're taking Friendczar public in 72 hours. We need ears on Pierce. I couldn't clone his phone. Wouldn't matter if you could. Pierce changes phones twice a day to avoid corporate espionage. Looks like he's supposed to attend a charity auction tonight. Promised the press a sound bite. And your plan is? Classic black, satin notch lapel, bespoke, of course. And I assume you know how to tie one of these? You following up on the anonymous tip? Yeah. You really think a cop killed Davidson? I think a lot of cops have reason to want an IAB detective dead. Then I realized Davidson wasn't the only cop who went missing last year. Detective Stills. Didn't you two work together in the 51st? Long time ago. Two cops go missing, their bodies never found. Something's not right. - Carter. - Detective. I'm emailing you the details of several lawsuits involving Logan Pierce. Plaintiffs with a history of violence, prior convictions. Uh, what exactly did you mean by "several lawsuits"? prioritized them. And no, there's no need to thank me. Ugh. Bear. Go get it. Go get it. I'm, uh, feeling a little out of place here. Don't worry, I'll talk you through any difficult encounters that may arise. Finch, I got eyes on Pierce and his partner Justin Ogilvy. Best friends for over a decade. They've known each other since Caltech. Who's the third guy in Pierce's circle? That would probably be Jeremy Campbell, Pierce's lawyer. Friendczar is his firm's only client. So I wake up, I'm bruised, I'm scratched. I call Justin from her dorm room. Yeah, no hello, no good morning. Just, "Justin, I think I got beat up - by a girl in bed and" - I did. "I think I kind of enjoyed it." I loved it. Remember that you're John Wiley, hedge fund manager. What about John Rooney, asset manager? No, no, he's a single-digit millionaire. John Wiley is valued at over 100 million. Exactly how much money do you have? Uh-oh. Pierce, Justin. You're both looking rich. Ben, you are looking mature. Hey. I feel a cold coming on. But wait, isn't your little charity thing working on a cure for that? You're thinking of cancer. Ben and Cynthia Kamin, whose social networking site connectroid.com was devalued by half when Friendczar debuted. Kamin's pretending to make nice. Finch, I think Pierce just made me. Just mention the carried interest loophole. You'll be fine. I haven't seen you at one of these things before. What's your story? John Wiley, hedge fund manager. How's that carried interest loophole treating you? I'm sorry. I thought you were interesting. My mistake. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats for the auction portion of tonight's event. I didn't make a good first impression. Only because I didn't realize that we were dealing with a one percenter who finds other one percenters tedious. We'll start the bidding tonight with our most coveted item, a collection of letters handwritten by Albert Einstein. We'll start the bidding for the letters at $1 million. Who will start at $1 million for our opening bid? $1 million right here. Looking for 1.5. I've got $1 million, looking for 1.5. looking for 2. for $2 million. I've got 1.5. I need $2 million for these letters. Kamin's bidding against Pierce. $2 million, anyone? $2 million right here, looking for 2.5. $2,501,000 right here, looking for 3. You know, I think these letters are worth much more than a piddly 3 mil. You could do better. Am I right, Kamin? We've got $5 million, ladies and gentlemen. That's too rich for Kamin's blood. Anybody else? Hmm? I'm so sorry, Finch, but this guy is too used to getting his own way. $10 million, ladies and gentlemen! We've got $10 million going once. Mr. Reese, this is not petty cash. We've got 10 million going twice. Sold, right there to the gentleman for $10 million. I'm sorry. Maybe next time. No apology necessary. I was just driving up the price for charity. Well Excuse me. Finch, Pierce just got a text. He's on the move. - Get your ass in here. - Yes, ma'am. I thought you had a cold. Pierce is not just encroaching on Kamin's business. He's encroaching on his wife. Oh, dear. Where is Mr. Pierce? I know Pierce and I were supposed to give you a sound bite in time for the 11:00 news, but he's indisposed at the moment. The one tip I can give you is that the Friendczar IPO will break records and make history. - Thanks. - Is Pierce avoiding us? How many shares are you planning to sell? The board knows Pierce only listens to you. Get him to pull himself together. Get this company some good press. That's Sinclair Melbourne, VC and chairman of the Friendczar board. This was a one-time slipup, Sinclair. It won't happen again. Sir, your letters. Ah. You can keep 'em. Finch, Pierce just left the auction, but his car's not here. Pierce is gone. What? He has no mode of transport. Is that a helicopter? It's against the law to take off from a rooftop in Manhattan. Finch, how do we keep up with a guy who breaks all the rules? I've been trying to get ahold of you. I turned off my phone. I'm working on a new heuristic algorithm. Harold. Something happened this morning. Current estimates for casualties from both attacks are very grave, estimated at about 200 Was it a plane? Two planes. Countless bodies have yet to be uncovered because they are buried under about In terms of civilian casualties We started IFT to change the world. Our suits got nicer, our scotch more expensive. We changed, but the world stayed the same until today. If we don't change the world, someone else will, so what are we gonna do to stop the guys who did this? Finch, looks like our billionaire might be having a breakdown. Pierce appears to be even more erratic than your typical billionaire. Nice legs. The closest thing he has to a routine is a weekly visit to a dry cleaner. - Where are you? - I'm at work. Hmm. Where's Pauly? He got a full scholarship to the Brooklyn Law Center. So I guess you will be needing my ticket then. Did you use the, uh-- CO2 process, yes, of course, Mr. Pierce. I guess you ran out of clean suits. Yeah. I'm actually more of a jeans and t-shirt kind of guy. I only have one suit. A good suit is like the perfect woman. Once you find the right one nothing else will do. How very eccentric of you. - Your card. - Course. Have a nice day. Mr. Reese, I switched Pierce's titanium card for one with a listening device. I also hacked his online calendar. He'll be heading back to the office for a round of Friendczar depositions. Friendczar destroyed my business. They ruined my reputation. No one returns my calls. And I can forget raising any venture capital funds. Friendczar is aggressive about purchasing and absorbing small start-ups. And if a small CEO tries to go toe-to-toe with them, he gets sued for patent infringement, no matter how bogus the suit. Could you tell me why Logan Pierce can't even look the man he's suing in the eye? 'Cause he's asleep. Hmm? You didn't violate our patents, we screwed up. We'll help you raise the venture capital funds you lost. Uh, thank you. Who's next? Emily Morton's lawyers are here. Mm, great. According to Detective Carter, Ms. Morton sold Friendczar her matchmaking site, alchementary.com. They promised her they'd launch her site worldwide, and instead, they made sure it never saw the light of day. I see lawyers but no client. Our client is unable to appear due to extenuating circumstances. A frivolous lawsuit doesn't qualify as extenuating circumstances. But intimidation does. Hey, we have a board meeting at 1:00. The board can meet me on Coney Island. They have got these bacon-wrapped hot dogs. Crispy on the outside, juicy on the in. It's your basic kosher nightmare. But you know what they say. "What happens on Coney Island--" well, I guess nothing good really happens on Coney Island, except for these dogs. What a lunatic. If we don't get ahold of Ms. Morton, we're gonna have to drop the lawsuit. Finch, Emily's missing, and her lawyer just implied she's being intimidated. Right before her suit goes to trial. The timing is a little too perfect. Maybe Pierce and his partner had something to do with her disappearance. - Pierce? - Hmm? Two days before your company's IPO, and you're streaking across Tribeca? Tell me, Sinclair, do you buy all your shirts pre-stuffed, or do you just fill 'em out that way? Come here. Get your partner back in the game, or I'm gonna call an emergency board meeting. When you build a viable web server using the LAMP stack, Sinclair, you're free to run the company. In fact, let's put it before the board-- you or me. That's what I thought. Lunchtime, bitches. Finch, even his own company's having trouble curbing Pierce's behavior. Glad to hear we're not alone. Pierce is headed to Coney Island. I'm on it. Something's not right. Normally Pierce drives fast, but he drives with precision. This is Logan Pierce. I have a slight problem with my car. I can't slow down. Pierce's car won't decelerate. Most modern vehicles can be hacked into. If you can get within 10 meters, I should be able to infiltrate the bluetooth, then access the engine control unit. Whoa! Finch, he blew a light. I lost him. No matter. I'm in. Someone has hacked into the car's ECU and installed malware, locked the car in third gear at 50 miles an hour. Hello, hello? Is anybody there? My accelerator's stuck. I can't downshift. Communications and emergency services. I understand that you can't decelerate. I'll do my best to remedy your problem. Remedy faster, Sherlock. I'm kinda hosed right now. Mr. Reese, do you have eyes on Pierce? Yes, he's about ten seconds out from a catastrophic accident. You don't stop him, Finch, there's a cargo truck that will. Finch, you saved him. Take me to the city. I can't protect someone we can't keep up with. Well, what do you have in mind? A different tactic. Mr. Pierce, there's a John Wiley to see you. Tell him I'm a busy man. If he objects, have security show him out. I'll make this quick. I have it on good authority that your life's in danger. And normally I'd just follow you around, help behind the scenes, but-- well, you've got too much money and too many resources. I can protect you, but only if you let me stick with you for the next 48 hours. Sounds like fun. See, I knew you were interesting. The freight train just left for Des Moines. The machine will be at the facility in ten days. I've been thinking about you wanting to make a difference, help people. You know, we can do that now. We could invest in clean water initiatives, sustainable farming. We built the single most powerful technology known to man-- a machine that knows when someone needs help. And you just gave it away. We had our chance, Harold. Well, we built it, and it saves lives. Not enough lives. We've been over this, Nathan. The machine is gone. What if we could still access it? We decided we weren't going to play God. We weren't going to build a back door. We decided a lot of things the last seven years. And that one, I'm the least proud of. We did what we set out to do. Now, either we move on to the next thing together, or we don't. You decide. Alchementary uses and advanced algorithm to predict if the relationship will last, and not just romantic relationships. Uh, business, friendships, you name it. Logan Pierce and Justin Ogilvy promised to launch Alchementary. I am going to make sure they keep their promise. Hey, Pierce, buddy. Before you go, about tonight. Party. New York stock exchange. Potential investors. Right, right. I'll be early. And make sure there's an extra invitation for Mr. Wiley here. Is this the guy who outbid you at the charity auction? We're considering a merger. And you think that's a good idea, partnering with a guy you just met? Oh, I think it's ideal. I haven't had time to learn all his flaws yet. See you at the party, bitches. Mr. Reese, Emily Morton vowed to make Pierce launch her technology, a technology that would seriously compete with Friendczar. Pretty sure Pierce is the victim, not the perpetrator. Someone already made an attempt on his life. Someone with hacking skills. Someone like a missing software engineer. Why get the exact same car when your old one didn't even have a scratch? 'Cause it's unparalleled. I don't collect toys, just the best of what I need. One car. One watch. and the orbit of the moon, tells time to the nanosecond, and I don't have to wind it. For $2 million, I certainly hope not. Welcome to my humble abode. You call this humble? Single malt scotch, neat, right? That's what you had at the auction. No, thanks. That's impressive though. Knowing people is my business. I thought your business was schmoozing investors for your IPO. My watch might not be able to tell time to the nanosecond, but you're late. I have better things to do. Finch, Pierce is missing his own party. Just as well. Pierce won't be safe in public now. Check your phone. Friendczar's IPO is predicted to reach record-breaking numbers. Do you think you'll make history? Well, with stock this overvalued, how could we not? You know, personally, Janet, I'd wait to buy for at least a day or two till after the stock dips. You know what I mean? The board called an emergency meeting. Pierce is no longer CEO of Friendczar. Who died? Oh, God. Don't tell me it was me. The board thinks they can do your job after all. You're out. Well, here's to unemployment. I don't feel very good. Pierce? Pierce. Sit back, sit back, sit back. You're having a reaction. Are you allergic to anything? Naproxen. Mr. Reese, what's going on? The scotch, it was spiked. Pierce is going into anaphylactic shock. - Sending an ambulance. - There's no time. I need to get air into his lungs. Relax. Look at me. You're going to be okay. Is Pierce all right, Mr. Reese? Yes. But he's gonna have one hell of a hangover. You saved me. In the Chinese culture, you'd be responsible for me for life. Glad neither one of us is Chinese then. Who has access to your house? Just a hundred or so of my closest friends. I like people. I like to party. Who knows you're allergic to naproxen? I don't know, I didn't develop the allergy till recently. Why are you doing this? Did somebody put you up to this? Is this penance for some deep, dark mistake? Spoken like a man who's made his fair share. I-- mistakes don't interest me. I don't look back. You keep moving. It's the only way to stay alive. Philosophy makes sense, coming from a kid whose parents went bankrupt. Knowing people is my business too. Well, my dad owned a little camera shop. And, um he made most of his money developing film. And he insisted on staying the course, all the way until the point that film became extinct. And then he tried to sell digital cameras, but by then it was too late because everyone had one in their phone. It's like he didn't even see it coming. When the business failed, we lost everything. And you think if you're constantly evolving, this won't happen to you? Of course it'll happen. But if you accept change is inevitable, it doesn't crush you when it does. Every technology ages, John. The only thing that never gets old is connecting with people. That's what everyone wants, a real connection. Well, you might wanna consider losing a couple hundred of your closest friends. Mm-hmm. I think you've had enough excitement for one night. I'm gonna rest my eyes and give you a break. I've put the billionaire to bed, Finch. We need to meet. Nice night for a walk. Why didn't you bring Bear? Bear didn't wanna come. I read that if there's anxiety in the home, it can make your pets become upset. Have you been under any excess stress? You mean besides being locked in an 11x13 in Rikers and wearing a bomb vest around Manhattan? Not really. Whoever poisoned Pierce had access to his home. We need to move him. My thinking exactly. I'll have Detective Carter examine the decanter for prints. You can escort our friend to the safe house. Time to wake the billionaire. I'm awake. And just who are you? You don't wanna tell me who you are? That's okay. I already know. Tell me, how did you make a bug small enough to fit inside this? Your voice too. You hacked into my car's computer and you remotely accessed the accelerator and the brakes. So I guess that makes you the brains of the operation. No offense. And judging by your bespoke suit, you're also the bank. And there's you, John. You took out my security guard Zvi. He's a former Mossad agent and an expert in Krav Maga. So what is it, John? Former Special Ops? Ex-CIA? And you, just a very rich hacker? As far as you're concerned, Mr. Pierce, we don't exist. But that's what's most impressive. John, I've been looking into you. And I'm not talking about your bogus hedge fund cover. You and your partner here don't seem to have a digital footprint. So I have to ask myself, how is this possible in this information age? People with that kind of anonymity, that's true power. So you see, I know who you are. The only thing I don't know is why you do what you do. Let me remind you, Mr. Pierce, that we saved your life twice. Now, you wanna keep on butting into our affairs? Or do you want to live? No need to get testy. I was just making small talk. So what's the plan? I'm afraid that you can't trust anyone. We've arranged to take you to a safe house nearby. You don't want anyone to find me, but you're keeping me in the city? You know a better place? Where exactly is this place? We just flew ten hours. You can't wait one more minute? So what do you think? You said you had a safe house. - Yeah. - This is a bar. No, this-- this is a bomb shelter made into a bar, and it is totally safe. Sit, please. Come on. Come on. This is good. What are we doing here? Do you like pierogies? I have it on very good authority they have the best in the world, so-- You flew me halfway across the world for fried dumplings? Double-fried. Yeah. Bear, look. Mmm. _ Detective, you're just the person I wanna speak to. Any closer to discovering who poisoned Logan Pierce? Got a partial print off the decanter, sent it through AFIS. Came up with a match with 11 points in common. The guy's prints weren't on file because he's an officer of the court. Mm-hmm. Mmm. - Might wanna slow down. - Hmm? I can't protect you from a heart attack. You know, you need to enjoy life. Who knows how to enjoy life as much as you, Pierce? How did he find us? He got a text from Pierce. I think you actually take pleasure in making me schlep after you. These couldn't wait? - What? - I thought we agreed. - No friends. - Well, he's also my lawyer. You know, and the board forced me out. And in doing so, they relinquished my non-compete clause, which is good, 'cause I am officially looking for a new job. Mr. Reese, something you should know. Campbell's prints were on the decanter of scotch. The board made Pierce take a medical exam for his corporate insurance. His lawyer filed the paperwork. You spiked his alcohol. You read about his allergy on his insurance application. You tried to kill him. Jeremy? Is that true? No, that's absurd. You're my best client, my only client. Pierce plans to switch law firms after the IPO is released. Why would I want you dead? Maybe because your only client is looking for a new attorney. Was I talking to you? Who the hell do you think you are? You might wanna keep your hands to yourself. You threatening me? Aah! Aah! Yo, Pierce, are we missing all the fun? Uh Full disclosure, I might have mentioned our little trip to one or two people. I mean, you can't expect me to be all business, can you? If you're not gonna take your safety seriously, why should I? Oh, come on. Relax, dude. Join the party! Campbell's no longer a threat, Finch. Pierce has got enough friends. He doesn't need our help. Hey, you want a coffee or something? No, I'm good, thanks. What you doing here, anyway? Somebody made two cops disappear without a trace. Probably not the kind of stuff you wanna leave lying around your desk, huh? Been thinking about the billionaire, his own lawyer trying to do him in. My heart breaks for him. I'm glad you got my back. You got a point, Fusco? Carter, there are some things you should know about me. - Some mistakes I've made-- - No. We're not doing that. You don't get to share that with me. Now you say you've changed, so I'm gonna trust you. But if those mistakes you made come back to haunt you, you will not expect me to cover for you. Now we may be partners, and we might even be friends, but, um, I'm still a cop. Understood? Yeah, I hear you. Loud and clear. I'll be home in 12 hours to help with the next number. I'm afraid that'll be too late. The next number's already come up, only it's not new. Someone we've helped before? Someone we're currently helping. Logan Pierce. There's another threat against him, or else someone is conspiring with the lawyer. All I know for certain is that Pierce is in immediate danger. I'm headed back to the club now. No need. I was able to hack Pierce's credit card account. His card was just used at the Grand Vishera Hotel in St. Petersburg. I'm sending you the address. It's right over the bridge. Pierce, it's John. Stop right there. He warned me someone would come. I've called security, get out. Emily, what are you doing here? I said get out, now! Mr. Reese, what's going on? Emily Morton. She's alive and appears to be a pretty good shot. What do you mean, he warned you someone else would come? Who's he? Pierce put you up at this hotel, didn't he? Finch, Emily's not working against Pierce. She's working with him. I haven't seen Pierce since he came by my apartment about a week ago. Said someone was on to us, told me to pack a bag, so I could finish Alchementary. We planned to announce our project tomorrow. Emily's technology will cannibalize Friendczar's business. It seems the person closest to Pierce is the one with the most to lose. Justin? Is that you, buddy? Hey. Well, I guess we're breaking up the company. Sorry, Pierce. But you brought this on yourself. - No, no, no! - Give us a minute. Always knew a woman would come between us. Just didn't think it'd be 'cause you liked her technology better. Emily didn't break us up, Justin, you did. You know, she actually reminds me of you, how you used to be-- passionate, principled. Before you decided we need to bully and bury our competition. I didn't hear you objecting. That's 'cause you weren't listening to me. How many times did I tell you I don't wanna run a business like that? You didn't wanna run a business at all, left me to do everything. I thought maybe you'd gone off the deep end, parading around town half-naked, taking board meetings at Coney Island. Then I realized, if the board pushed you out, your non-compete clause would be null and void, and you could take Emily's technology public. Emily's idea's better. It's what people want, the perfect match in love and friendship, even business. What do you know about friends? All your friends want you dead. Even your new pal's left you. Dump him. No, no! No! Wait, wait! Wait! I had 'em right where I wanted 'em, you know? You need to get new friends, Pierce. I couldn't agree with you more, man. Now either we move on to the next thing together, or we don't. You decide. _ _ _ Today Justin Ogilvy, the co-founder of friendczar.com, was brought up on charges for attempting to murder his partner Logan Pierce in what can only be described as a bizarre case. Some friendships aren't made to last. The Friendczar IPO has continued its downward slump after an announcement that Logan Pierce is launching a new company that's in direct competition with Friendczar. Pierce is partnering with software engineer Emily Morton and surprisingly, Ben Kamin, his former rival. Thanks, Janet, now turning our attention to the weather. All right, Chewie, prepare to get posterized. You know, I heard your mother sat on her iPhone, and it turned to an iPad. Is that true, man? Is it true? Come on now. I could go all day. Next bucket gets the other guy's car. Or in your case, your bike, or metrocard, whatever. Bet's a bet. Whoa, thief! You are a thief. We said check the ball. You guys hear-- you heard me say check the ball, right? No, that's ball game, what you said. I'm just kidding, showboat. I'm a man of my word. Man, you crazy. Yeah, I've heard that. You got some game. You're full of surprises. - You're one to talk. - Yeah? Partnering with Kamin, your competition. The guy's a straight shooter, you know? Plus, Emily's software said we're totally compatible, not so much with his wife though. One thing I don't get-- you warned Emily about Ogilvy. And you knew he was after you. Why didn't you tell me? Haven't you heard? I have a reckless disregard for my own safety. You just wanted to see how I worked. You know, I finally figured it out, why you do what you do. Altruism. How's that working out for you? Just a little thank-you. So I guess you will be moving on to your next hapless stranger? I can at least give you a lift. Actually, I, uh-- I think I'll take the subway. What are we doing here, Finch? Do we have another number? No, a date. You got me a date? Not you. Bear. He needs a friend. Hello. Go. Good thinking, Finch. Our billionaire gave me a little something. Well-- Tells time to the nanosecond. That was a very expensive watch. Not to mention, a gift. A gift equipped with GPS. A cunning billionaire with unlimited resources. Our friend is just curious enough to be dangerous. _ _
You are being watched. The government has a secret system-- a machine that spies on you every hour of every day. I designed the machine to detect acts of terror, but it sees everything Violent crimes involving ordinary people. The government considers these people irrelevant. We don't. Hunted by the authorities, we work in secret. You will never find us. But victim or perpetrator, if your number's up, we'll find you. Did you see it happen? No, but she did. She saw everything. Where's the girl now? Are you sure you can keep her safe? Of course. Did you know that the first public cell phone call was made from the New York Hilton? 1973. There's also a rumor that the Martini was invented at the Knickerbocker, but there are some people in San Francisco that would dispute that. I feel like I should be taking notes. You find my fascination with hotels to be peculiar, don't you? You sharing anything personal is peculiar. A hotel is one of the last few places where a person can retain relative anonymity. Makes it easier when disappearing foreign diplomats from their penthouses. With any luck, Mr. Reese, we can prevent a murder, rather than the alternative. Yeah. _ Mira Dobrica. You sure the threat to her is work-related? Ms. Dobrica is single, lives alone, doesn't do much social networking, and she puts in a 60-hour work week. Whatever's gonna happen, it makes sense that it would happen here. They say a maid can tell everything about you from how you leave your room. All sorts of things happen in hotel rooms. Mira's job could have put her at the wrong place at the wrong time. What about her life before coming to America? Bit of a mystery. She came here in '99, when computer records weren't what they are today. I put in a call to Immigration Services, as a prospective employer. Would that be Mr. Wren from Universal Heritage Insurance? You know, her shift starts in five minutes, which means that ours starts in four. They were hiring a bellhop and a concierge. The choice seemed obvious. I interviewed last night, made sure that your resume would stand out. Oh, by the way, you worked at the Hotel Lutetia in Paris for two years. You'll have access to every room with your employee key card. I can research the guests and exploit any necessary systems from my desk. One of them is planning a murder. Where do we start? Harold. Glad you could start on such short notice. Derek, my pleasure. When you're on the clock, it's Mr. Fowler. This is bud, my head doorman. And you are again? John. I worked at the Hotel Lutetia. Right. Your desk is right over there. Remember, always recommend our restaurant before suggesting anywhere else. - Very good. - We're hosting an event for the Association of Aviation Technology tomorrow, and most of the attendees are arriving today, so no excuse for standing around. Are you waiting for a written invitation? Let me help you with that. Mr. Reese, Mira should be housekeeping on the 30th floor. I just finished a run on 12. I'll head up. John. Zoe. Haven't seen you since the divorce. You working? Yeah. You working? Always. Like the suit. I'm planting the camera on her cart. We can see exactly where she is at all times. I didn't take your money. I had 50 bucks in my wallet, and now I don't. Finch, who's in room 3024? Tug Brantley, CEO of the Aggro Push energy drink. I'm a Platinum Member of this place. Do you have any idea how difficult I can make your life? - Come on. - What do you want from me? I wanna know if those lips taste like the chocolate mints you leave on my pillow. I'm going to come back when you're not here. Are you really going to turn me down? - Is there a problem here? - Who invited you in? Mr. Reese, could you try not to get fired before lunch? Being a Platinum Member doesn't entitle you to sexually harass our staff. If you disagree, we can have the police sort this out. You're lucky I don't report you to your boss. - Are you all right? - I'm fine. That sort of thing happens every other week, you know. I could have handled it. Sounds like a rough gig. I'm John. Mira. So strong, handsome guy your age working as a bellhop. Must have made a wrong turn somewhere. Yeah, I stopped counting awhile back. Well you're in for a rough gig yourself. Our brilliant manager should have staffed four bellhops. Instead, it's just you and Randy, and he takes more smoke breaks than he does luggage. You seem to know your way around this place. Hotel management is hard work, but it's not rocket science. Speaking of which, I should get back to work. Guess I'll be seeing you around then. _ Oh, I really like this girl, Finch. I heard back from Immigration Services. Mira sought asylum as a Serbian refugee, a survivor of the Kosovo war. I thought most refugees from that war were Albanian. Most were, but both sides suffered losses. Seeing as how Mira came alone, we can only assume that whatever family she had didn't make it out. She was 16 at the time. She's been on her own ever since. Here's a map of midtown. That's the Theater District, Columbus Circle, and the beginning of the Park. - It's a good start. - Thank you. I managed to hack into the security network and piggyback on their feeds, allowing me access to all the hotel's cameras. Uh, excuse me. Where's the-- Oh, the ladies' is around-- and the gents', the opposite. Mira. Is something wrong? Police were asking questions about our little side operation. It got me thinking about how they knew to poke around in the first place. - It-- it wasn't me. - No. You're not stupid enough to do a thing like that because you know how upset I would be if I found out it was you. Of course. Mr. Reese, we can add hotel staff to our list of potential threats. Sir. Welcome back to the land of the free. Getting out of Rikers took longer than I anticipated. I understand our rogue operative slipped away from you in there. It won't happen again. I know his face now. Need you to work fast. Ever since he assaulted our DOD facility, our source has become compromised. Compromised, sir? This man has connections to a dangerous party. It's imperative that you find him and figure out who he works for. Wherever he goes, a mess usually follows. All I have to do is find the right mess. I'm sure you'll work it out, and when you're done with him, - make sure no one finds him. - Understood. Any available units, please respond to a 10-50 in progress at the intersection of 46th and 3rd. - Thanks. - Hey, so listen, there's something you should know. I'm in a bit of trouble. - Serious? - Yeah. My mom wants to set me up with this woman who goes to her church. Oh. Well, that's pretty serious. Yeah. What'd you say? That I'm seeing someone. It could be serious. That right? I don't know. Have you told your son anything? Mm, I may have mentioned a thing or two, that I met a man who's nice and funny, easy on the eyes. Taylor's happy for me, so what do you think about meeting him? I'm cool with it. You? I think it might be time. But let's talk more about it later. I gotta go. - Okay. - Okay. SAIC Moss. Didn't think I'd ever see you here again. I'm on a matter regarding Special Agent Donnelly. After he died, I took it upon myself to review his old files. Found something that might interest you. I discovered a recommendation to make you a Field Agent. Donnelly ever discuss that with you? Once or twice, yeah. I'm ready to run it up the flagpole, but only if you're still interested. I am. Great. Then with your permission, we'll initiate the background check, interview friends, family, any contacts from the past ten years. Okay, whatever you need. Are you available to take a polygraph this evening? - Polygraph? - Standard procedure. You can take it here in the precinct. Okay, it shouldn't be a problem. - Then we'll see you later. - Okay. FBI, huh? You really gonna go through with this? Yeah. I guess so. The spa's located past the elevator banks, through a glass door on your right. - You can't miss it. - Sounds great. Everything all right, Mr. Reese? I feel like I'm back at boot camp, and we still haven't zeroed in on the threat to Mira yet. Same girl we saw before, but she's with a different guy. The side operation Derek's running might be girls. I made a similar observation. Detective Carter should be getting back to me soon on any known solicitation activity. Look who has time to chat. A bus just arrived full of airplane geeks. Check them in, and let's make sure they don't crowd up the common areas. Oh, I really hope Derek's the threat. Detective Carter. I checked with Vice. They picked up a working girl a few days ago at that hotel off an anonymous tip, but the girl didn't say boo, and her bail was posted within an hour. - By whom? - By a guy named Bud Garrison. Our floor manager's pet. Thank you. - Anything else? - Should there be? I just assume you heard my conversation with Moss. I hear everything, Detective. So you know he thinks I'm qualified to join the feds. Well, what do you think? I just think it'll be a great opportunity, assuming I get in. You're concerned about the polygraph. Considering I've been lying about you guys for over a year, a little. You know, polygraphs don't detect lies, just physiological responses. Try lying on one of the baseline questions, it might trick the test into thinking that everything you say is normal. Yeah, it's just a machine, right? I mean, how smart can it be? Exactly. Just a machine. Oh, in the meantime, it might be wise for you to steer clear of John and myself, just for the time being. Yeah, I think that's a good idea. Thanks. Looks like Derek is running an escort service. If Mira called in the tip, he might be our threat. The sooner we can confirm it, the sooner we can go home. Housekeeping. Sorry, we don't need service. My wife forgot to put the sign out. No problem. Housekeeping. Hey. I need to talk to you. I can't now. You know this can't wait. Mr. Reese? Mira's just been summoned into room 3215 by a guest. Charles Harris. She didn't look particularly happy to see him. You must be exhausted, dropping bags off all day. According to his hotel bill, Mr. Harris drinks more than he eats, and we have no way of knowing what's going on in the room because Mira left her phone on her cart. She's three floors above you. How late do you deliver room service? I believe the hotel delivers room service-- - I'm not talking about the hotel. I'm talking about you. Feel free to drop yourself off anytime. Huh. Excuse me. I'm on the 32nd floor now. Don't try to push me, Harris. But you need to listen to reason. How can you expect me to agree to this? Because it's the right thing to do. Easy for you to say. Next time, damn well knock. What are you doing here? I was checking the minibar. I'll save you the trouble. It's empty. We'll talk later. Ms. Brozi, Ms. Brozi! Please reconsider. What's your problem? That's the second time you've walked in on me. It's Derek, isn't it? He has you following me around. Are you in some kind of trouble with him? I know he's running girls out of here. I also know you're involved. I clean the rooms, that's my job. I've worked too hard to get involved in some sleazy scheme. Is that why you tipped off the police? That's none of your business. What about the booze hound in there? I heard the yelling. He's harmless. It was nothing. Are you sure about that, Ms. Dobrica? Or is that "Brozi"? You know nothing about me, what I've seen, what I've been through. I don't need help, especially from someone like you. Just stay away from me, got it? We do have a good steakhouse here in the hotel, but personally, I'd recommend The Grand. Best rib eye in town. You will not be disappointed. Shall I put you down for 7:30? - Sure, thanks. - Okay. I've been researching our guest. Charles Harris is a freelance journalist working with a number of respected publications. He's the kind of writer that has strong opinions about world leaders, making him persona non grata in a half dozen countries. What's his interest in Mira? Not sure, but if he came all this way to talk to her, she might be some kind of source. A girl who flees her country and changes her name is someone who doesn't want to be found. But if she's hiding, who's she hiding from? That guy in the turtleneck. He's been sitting there since we arrived. Have you seen him move at all? - I don't believe so. - Yeah, well, he's got a clear line of sight of the front desk and the entrance. Might be waiting for somebody. And if he's not? Then what's he still doing here? How do you suggest we find out? What ya readin'? Nothing, it was here when I sat down. Good. Can't stand these airplane nuts. I mean, the pickup-- Oh, my gosh, I am so sorry. - I'm sorry. - It's okay. It's okay, it's fine. - I'm sorry. - Don't worry about it. Who's he talking to? Pull up the downstairs feeds. Watch the man at the bar. The man at the side entrance is taking his place. They're spotters. They're rotating positions to patch the gaps in their surveillance. Military recon tactic. It's a hit squad, Finch. At least it's safe to say that we found the real threat to Mira. Who would send a hit squad with military training to kill a hotel maid? Our spotter is headed back downstairs, Finch. Where's Mira? She's in the kitchen, taking a break. Well, I'm going to check out his room. That room is registered to a Peter Krieg, checked in under a German passport. Could be a forged identity. We need to know who sent the team. Any new information on Harris? - I see that his laptop is signed onto the hotel wi-fi. If I can get past his firewall, I can see what kind of notes he has on Mira. Our spotter has a file on Harris. Whatever's going on, it has to do with a series of articles Harris wrote about a Serbian colonel named Rudko Petrovic. That name sounds familiar. I believe he's running for deputy prime minister. Harris all but accused him of committing war crimes in Kosovo. How does Mira fit into all this? I think I just found out. I'm in Harris's computer. Not only is her real last name "Brozi," but she's ethnic Albanian, not Serbian. According to Harris's notes, mira witnessed Petrovic order the execution of her entire family. It makes sense that she lied to Immigration about her name and ethnicity, she was simply protecting herself. And Harris found the one witness who could bring down the colonel. They must have followed him to the hotel, hoping he would establish contact with his source. They'll make their move on Mira as soon as they identify her. They may already have. What's the ETA on our backup? Arriving as we speak. Always a bar. Hi, give me a ginger ale. Mr. Reese, all three spotters are back in their original positions. Keep an eye on them. We'll deal with those guys after I get Mira out of here. You just don't give up, do you? John, the man at the side entrance is moving. Why won't you just leave me alone? Aah! That a good enough reason? Ah! He was going to kill me for talking to the journalist. He was going to kill you for knowing what Petrovic did to your family in Kosovo. What does that make you? Just a guy at the right place at the right time. _ Mr. Reese, I've lost the connection to Harris's computer and eyes on his floor. You'd better get to Mr. Harris's room immediately. Stay close to me. All right, like to start with a few basic questions. Is your name Jocelyn Carter? Yes. Are you a member of the Homicide Task Force - in New York? - Yes. Have you ever smoked marijuana? Yes. College. You're the first one to admit that. Okay, now, we can move on to the important stuff. Mr. Reese? It seems that Mr. Harris remotely checked out of his room a few minutes ago. He's not here. Any chance another maid cleaned this room? Not today. This is my floor. You notice anything out of the ordinary? The chair-- it's usually over there. We're too late. They move fast. Cleaned up best they could. I thought he was a drunk. Yesterday, he tells me he knows who I am, that Petrovic is the man who killed my family. How did you escape, Mira? Sanja, a Serbian woman across the street. I watched it happen from her attic. Then the man, Harris, found Sanja last month, made a tape of her saying I could identify the colonel. She was found dead two weeks ago, probably from talking to the journalist. He said if I went public, it would ensure my safety, but I refused. Look how far this monster is willing to go. What choice do I have? I'm gonna get you out of here, Mira, but I need to know how they found out about you. Did you tell anyone you were talking with Harris? No, nobody. Then how could they have known you were the witness? Unless Give me your cell phone. The electromagnetic field of a microphone can interfere with a cell phone. They overheard everything in this room. They're next door. Wait here. Aah! Oh! Mira? She's running for it, Finch. Finch, she just got on the elevator. Mira, I was just looking for you. Mr. Reese, I'm afraid Mira's in there with another member of the hit squad. And she has nowhere to run. Do exactly as I say. Use your key card and take us straight to the basement. I may be able to stall the elevator before it gets to the basement, might give you a chance to get Mira out of there. I'm a little busy, Lionel. Yeah, one of your trained killers is leaving his post. So is the one in the lobby. He's taking rather a large trunk with him. I don't know what they could possibly-- Oh, dear. It's Harris. - They're disposing of the body. - Body? What body? Detective, you can't let them leave the hotel. The recording, where is it? I don't know of any recording. The one of Sanja, your old neighbor, it wasn't in his room or on his computer. I swear, I don't have it. No? Too bad. I don't know who you are, but I'm prepared to shoot you and 20 others like you to get what I came for. Glad that you're a better shot than you are a bellhop. So am I. Detective, the barfly just left the building through the back exit. Yeah, okay, I'm on it. - Oh, excuse me. - Uh, sorry. Just looking for the bathroom. I thought I saw a sign, but-- Yeah, why don't you try right up those stairs in the lobby? Oh, yeah. Thanks, buddy. What do you say we get you out of here now? Not yet. We have to get the tape Harris made of Sanja. It's evidence Petrovic killed her. You said you didn't have it. I lied. He gave me a disc to take home and watch. Thought it would persuade me to tell my story. It's down in my locker. Well, that and your testimony would be enough to put Petrovic away. Assuming I live long enough. I'll come back for the disc after we get you out of here. We don't know how many hit men are left. Drop us off on the next floor, then shut this elevator down. Who are you talking to? Hello. This is Harold. I work with John. It's a pleasure to meet you, Mira. Sure. Hey, excuse me, guys. Have you seen a little chihuahua? He's a little dog about this big. Ah, jeez. Yeah. I've got a new assignment for you. Meet me at the annex south of the lobby. Yeah, no problem. I'm fine, by the way, considering I just took out two trained killers trying to get rid of a body. Never doubted you for a second. Now, come and meet me. I'll be right there. Let me just call these two in. Oh, and don't forget the guys in the storage room and the elevator. Seriously? Got something? Big mess at The Coronet Hotel. Couple guys with gunshot wounds have been tied up and gift-wrapped. Sounds like our man. What are you still talking to me for? This friend of yours, he's a policeman? Yeah. Listen, Mira, he'll take you to his precinct. It's the safest place for you until this is over. I've never really felt safe since I left Kosovo. I was a girl when I ran away. New name, new country, I tried to leave all that behind. But it's like I've just been waiting for all this to come back somehow, afraid of what would happen to me if it did. From what I've seen, you're a lot braver than you think. I allowed Rudko Petrovic get away with murder. My family, Sanja, now Harris. No more. Petrovic must be held accountable. You rang? Mira, this is Lionel, and you can trust him. Nice to meet you. All right, you ready? Thank you, John. You're welcome. Okay, come on. This way. Finch, now would be a good time to tender your resignation. Have you ever lied to people you work with? No. Have you ever knowingly associated with a wanted criminal? No. Have you-- What was that about? How would you describe your relationship with Narcotics Detective Cal Beecher? Cal? You describe it as platonic? Intimate? We see each other socially. Are you aware of any of the several IAB investigations into Detective Beecher? Investigations for what? I'm not at liberty to say. So you were not aware of any of the ongoing investigations-- No. I was not aware. Where the hell have you been? You really have no idea what's going on in your hotel, do you? You're me. You find a first day employee sneaking around in the ladies' locker room. What do you do? I don't know, something like this? I've got the disc. Meet you back at the library. You're a hard man to find. The phone please. How about we go somewhere a little more private? That's some line of questioning. Hope it gets easier from here. Unfortunately, this can't go any further. I'm rescinding your offer to join the Bureau. I'm sorry, Detective, sometimes these things don't work out. Why not? I can't divulge that. I gave you plenty of answers in that room. I can get one from you. In the future, I'd choose my company more wisely. - Yeah. - Yeah, all right. Can I get you a soda? I'm fine. Thank you. Okay, if you need anything, I'll be right out here, okay? You missed all the fun. Wonderboy and I jump-started an international incident. Shame I couldn't be there. You say you were mugged? Yeah, guy took my wallet and my watch. Okay. Just wait right here, sir. Someone will be by shortly to take your statement. Thanks, buddy. Get out. Get out! This can go one of two ways. Don't suppose one of those ways involves me walking out of here. Didn't think so. I don't care who you are. I don't care what you did to get here. All I want to know is who you work for. But that would be telling. What makes you think I'm working for anyone, anyway? Because you're like me. We don't give orders, we execute them. Speak for yourself. One last time. Who do you work for? You'll never know. Any deeper, and I would have cut your celiac artery. You got about 20 minutes before you bleed to death. You can keep coming after me, or you can get to the hospital. I wonder if your employers would have showed you that kind of mercy. How's it going? Fine, just tired, you know? Long day. Uh, I was thinking about what we could do with Taylor. Maybe we can go to the Botanical Garden Saturday. Yeah, I've been thinking about that. Maybe it is too soon, you know? Sure. Cool. Hey, Carter, if you need to talk to me-- I just need time. That's it, Cal. You take as long as you need. I'm not going anywhere. - Uh-huh. - Hey, Sarge. - You have a second? - Yeah. Hey! Hey! Carter, he's got a weapon! Are you okay? Guess you didn't miss all the fun after all. Colonel's career is over. Next stop, The Hague. I'll have what he's having. What was your business here anyway? Well, let's just say the convention wasn't as boring as I thought it would be. The things people try to get away with in hotels. I see you boys made the news. Not too bad, considering you also helped to take down an escort ring. They'd barely gotten the floor manager into handcuffs before he confessed to the entire operation. Meanwhile, my phone hasn't let up. Councilmen needing to know that their names aren't gonna surface on the client list. I appreciate the work. And to make sure this place is run properly, Harold here bought the hotel. It needed proper management. John, Harold, this one's on the house. Ms. Brozi, I was hoping we could go over the event calendar - for the month. - Absolutely. Ever consider doing in-house work? This place could use someone in crisis management. I like to move around. More a freelancer, like you. It's a nice place. Maybe I'll even stick around for one more night. Well, I heard it was all booked, but then again, you do know the owner. The penthouse suite. Another round? Sir, I have Mr. Hersh for you. Thank you, Ms. May. Well, you haven't checked in for a while. I hit a snag. We have a bigger problem at home. I need you here ASAP. I'm on my way. Ms. May, I need to draft a letter to the State Department. Be right in, sir. For your State Dinner at the White House. Also, I picked up something for your anniversary. God, I completely forgot. Ms. May, you've only worked for me for two months, and already, you know me better than I know myself. That's what I'm here for. Ready when you are, sir. To the Secretary of State, from Office of Special Counsel.
You are being watched. The government has a secret system-- a machine that spies on you every hour of every day. _ _ He's been asking too many questions. How do we deal with it? Seems to me we have the solution at hand. Listen, you've got the wrong guy. You just need to-- _ _ Danke schon. _ I'm sorry, I don't speak German. _ No, I-I think it's just a misunderstanding. _ Are these men bothering you? I'd be happy to detain them. Oh, no. Thank you. Um, I think it's just a mistake. Listen, I'm in a bit of a hurry. _ _ _ _ _ Any sign of our guy Bekhti? No. And I just had to shoot our best chance of finding him. I can't take you anywhere, Shaw. Well, he was calling Bekhti. I got a partial number. Eight digits. Couldn't you have shot him after he finished dialing? Run it down, all right? Whatever Bekhti's into, these guys were willing to kill a cop to protect it. Bekhti's cell phone signal is right below us. above the street. Probably the top floor. Here we go! All right. Ah, whoa. Wrong apartment. Go fish. All right, we got a winner. Ahnaz. You disappoint me. Look at you, you got semtex. You have a cell phone detonator. Let me see that. And cesium. Half a pound. They're making a dirty bomb. What's the plan? _ _ There's no time. I'm calling Control. Yeah, this is Catalyst. Passphrase "Indigo." Go ahead, Indigo. Request permission to engage. Direct action. Green light. They still have the windows closed? As far as I can tell. You know the only other people crazy enough to use the gas besides you, Shaw? Russians. Crazy FSB Russians. Where do you think I get it? We have our first winner. Number two. There's three. I've removed the cesium. Shaw, what happened? - Ah! - Oh! Aghh! A little help, Cole. I can't, uh-- I can't see him. Just-- What do you have? Still looking. I don't see him, Shaw. I-I still don't have him. Calm down. Give me something I can use. Okay, wait. Don't move. Your 3:00 now. Sam, you okay? Pull the fire alarm and head down to the street. Um, what are you gonna be doing? Getting my bullets back. We were never here, remember? Bekhti's wiring was a bit rough. I fixed it for them. That's nice of you. You're making your own way out. Sure you don't want some company? Why, you know anybody? I'll see you when I see you. I'll see you tomorrow. Where? New York City. Control called. We got another number. I guess it's like you said. They never stop coming. - How is New York? - Cold. I'm meeting with Wilson tonight. Since when do you make deliveries? I was in town for a meeting. Thought I'd congratulate my best operator. Tell me this. Don't we pay you to disarm bombs rather than set them off? My call. We had the cesium. Seemed like the best way to cover our tracks. Thank you. Unofficially. Your new number. I've still got eyes on our new number. He's been walking in circles for an hour, Cole. I'm getting a little bored. Tell me a story. James Mercer. Did four in the corps. A dishonorable discharge. Graduates to the militia movement. And then a week ago, he gets wired 10k from an offshore account, and moves to Queens. I'm guessing research doesn't think he's here for a Broadway show. Cole, I think I've been made. My 3:00, good-looking guy in a suit. You sure he's not just checking you out? Forgot your gas mask, Shaw. All right, false alarm. Incoming. Mercer's getting a call. It's time. Tomorrow's the big day. We need to get a look at this guy's computer tonight. You may even have to get out of the van. Is something wrong with you? You're not still pining for that girl in Staad. You ever wonder where Research gets the numbers? - No. - Why? Because I don't work for Research. Did you ever think they could be wrong sometimes? Like that guy in San Jose. Aquino. Two years ago. He was so confused. - You remember what he said? - I do. Because I'm the one that killed him while you just watched on your little camera. I also remember that he was trying to sell designs for a nuclear centrifuge to Hezbollah. And you tracked the money trail. Research was right about Aquino. Like they're always right. How can you be so sure that they are never wrong if you have no idea who they even are or where they get these numbers? I know exactly where they get those damn numbers from, Cole, and so do you. From a dark room somewhere where they hurt people badly. And the reason we don't ask where Research gets its numbers from is because Research is never wrong. Well, they were this time. You did something stupid, didn't you? I called on one of my friends from the agency, asked her to trace the money. Those transfers didn't come from Hezbollah. They came from the US Government. Aquino was doing something covert, but he was doing it for us. I called Control. Wilson. I mean, I've requested an internal investigation. I will keep you out of it, I promise. You talked to Wilson? Yeah. Mercer's on the move. And we still have a job to do remember? Whoa, all right. I'm in. That was easy. Anything? This is not right. Mercer's got a bunch of emails from some contacts-- ex-military. Do you have the name of the contacts? Yeah. They're us. Our names are all over these files. _ Shaw? Shaw! We need to move. Now. Ah, that's gonna be tough. - All right, come on. - Ah! - I'm sorry. - No, no, no, don't talk. All right. Look, I'm gonna call Control, and, uh we're gonna get you some help. I was trying to get your back. Always trying to be the hero, huh? No. Just yours. Second Team, head in. Shaw listen. My name is John. I'm here to help you. Team Three, move into position. Aah! This is Team Two. I think she may have backup. There's some other guy in he-- All teams, check in. Did you kill the woman or not? Wilson? Yes? We got a problem. I lost her. I would say that's a little more than a problem, Wilson. We took care of Cole. Shaw managed to shoot her way out. I lost a full team. It's a bit of a mess. That's unfortunate. Just a moment. - That's everything you need for your 10:00 AM with State. Will you need anything else? No, thank you, Miss May. - Have a nice evening. - You too, sir. So you're telling me we've got a lethal operative off the leash who's aware we terminated her partner and tried to do the same to her and who may have information which endangers our entire project. That seems to be the situation, sir. First, she'll be looking to regroup. Transportation, weapons, a place to hide. - But we may have an edge. - What's that? I'm pretty sure I clipped her. Mm. What you need tonight, girl? You know, I just need a little bit of daylight. Sunshine. I got you. Whoa! Hold on! Lewis? If your dumb ass is here, who the hell is out on the corner? Ah! You ever have a staring contest with a fish? - What? - No eyelids. Kinda pointless, right? Like you reaching for that scattergun. Back up. Okay, there, Lewis. I'm gonna need you to ziptie your friend to the radiator. Nice and tight. Uh, Lewis, I'm gonna need some things. Painkillers, razor blades, and if there's no gauze, then towels. Hollow point. Son of a bitch! Seen shots like that before. You're gut shot. - You're done. - You better hope not. 'Cause if I start to lose consciousness, I'm shooting you first. Sit down, Lewis. Have you done this before? You're pretty good at it. I was in med school for a bit. - You're a doctor? - No. Joined the Marines. Figured I was better at killing people than fixing them. Yeah. I'm about to lose consciousness, so, uh I need you to ziptie yourself along with your friend, okay? I always knew you was an idiot, Lewis. Hey, you. Nice piece. Who the hell you supposed to be, some kinda badass? Not really. I have what's called an Axis II Personality Disorder. What's that supposed to mean? It means when I kill you and your friends, I'm not really gonna feel anything. Oh! You gonna kill me? You weight what, hundred pounds? a quarter of an ounce. It gets the job done. But your gun's a .45, little girl. I was talking about my backup piece. Lewis, go. If you tell anybody about me I will find you. Shaw is one of our best. Trained her myself. You're not gonna find her until she wants to be found. We need to know her game plan. Is Shaw going to look into the Aquino situation, or simply come after us for revenge? Both. She's a multitasker. It's why we hired her. We need to track down Cole's contact in the CIA. I'm already on it. Her name is Veronica Sinclair. What did you find, partner? Hello? Hello, Veronica. I wanna talk to you about Michael Cole. Who is this? Whatever you told him may have gotten him killed. Please. I can't be involved in this. Well, you either meet me or I track you down. And that is not something that you want. Manhattan, the Suffolk Hotel, room 1458, I'll be there. Shaw. Figured you'd be calling me sooner or later. You should really come in, Sam. You know there's no point in running from us. I'll turn myself in, but only to the boss. - I wanna meet Control. - Yeah, I don't think so. I call my boss, you try to kill him. It's very embarrassing for me. I will send you the location. You make sure he's there, or else I go public with the Aquino files. - When? - Tonight. And, Wilson, don't keep me waiting. - Hello, Veronica. - Come in. Any chance you were followed? I don't think so, but I haven't been in the field since I was at the farm. You're Sam, right? Michael talked about you. I mean, he didn't tell me about what you guys do or anything, but he liked you. What happened to him? He was killed. On a mission. The less you know about all of this, the safer you'll be. But I do need to know what he talked to you about. Mike sent over details of wire transfers to a nuclear engineer named Daniel Aquino. They appeared to originate out of accounts affiliated with Hezbollah, but someone had electronically spoofed the transfers. I was able to track down the real originating accounts. They were out of the US Government. Which part of the government? A group out of the Pentagon called the Intelligence Support Activity. Have you heard of them? You could say that. Up until yesterday, I worked for them. Their budget's confidential, but it stretches back five years. Huge amounts coded to a project called Northern Lights. What was the project? I don't know. But Aquino was part of it. They built a facility of some kind coded as Research. But I can't find the names of anyone else involved in the project. Mike said Aquino told you the name of his contact in Northern Lights. Do you remember it? Stay here. And keep away from those windows. Veronica and I had a bit of a chat before you got here. She tried really, really hard to remember anything else that could help me, but she didn't know anything. I read your file, and I'm kind of a big fan. So, I really don't wanna hurt you. I just need the name. You really have no idea what you're caught up in, do you? Who you're actually working for? Did you honestly think the source of the numbers was Guantanamo? Some sad taxi driver rotting away in a cage somewhere? I mean, you should know torture almost never produces good information. Well almost never. Sadly, we are on a bit of a clock. Wilson's men started looking for Veronica here three hours ago. Mm! Now Aquino was hired to build a home for something very special, something I wanna find. So you're gonna tell me the name of his contact. One of the things I left out of my file I kind of enjoy this sort of thing. I am so glad you said that. I do too. Oh. And just when we were starting to really connect. I'm sorry. A little rude, I know. We'll do this again soon. Clear! All clear. Indigo located. And the secondary. Instructions? Understood. Can you do me a favor? Can you not shoot me this time? - Give me a good reason. - I don't know. I'm a really nice person, and, well that. May I? Okay. It's probably acontine. You can counteract it with atropine in case I bump it. The dose we use, you've got about four minutes. So unless you've got some atropine on you, don't bump it. I got a friend who wants to talk to you. Why would I wanna talk to one of your friends? You got somewhere better to be? Hello, Ms. Shaw. You can call me Harold. You're the man in charge? No. No one's in charge. My friend and I help people in trouble. Or maybe you work for Wilson and this is all some kinda game. Honestly, I was never terribly good at games. You work-- or at least you used to work-- for a secret government program that prevents terrible things-- terrorist acts and crimes relevant to nation security. The information that you received came from a group of people that you call Research. And it's notable for two reasons. One, it's never wrong. And two, it consists only of a number. - This is-- - Your number. And Mr. Cole's. We were unable to save him, and for that, I'm sorry. We didn't understand the exact nature of your situation at first. So if you're not part of the program then who are you? Let's just say that ultimately, you and I work for the same entity. And that entity wanted you and your friend over there to help me? In a manner of speaking. In truth, we're probably the only people who can help you. Well, if you know so much about my employers, then you must know that they are very very good at finding people. Even you can't run forever. I don't need forever. Just long enough to find the man behind the curtain, the one who gave the kill order. You won't even scratch the surface of their organization, and you'll still be in grave danger. You hold a piece of a puzzle, a secret so important that they were willing to kill Dr. Aquino and your friend Michael Cole and yourself to protect it. The truth about a group of people you call Research. Something that Cole had begun to suspect. - Which is what? - That they don't exist. The world looks like it did ten years ago, but underneath, it's become very strange indeed. An invisible struggle has begun. Most of the people who knew this are already dead. All things being equal, I prefer you didn't join them. So like I said We're here to help you. But first, you need to stop running because you're much too good it and we can't keep up. - Hiding isn't my style. - But dying is? Because, as I see it, that's your only option. You know, I never had many friends. Didn't have much use for 'em. Cole was an exception. And he deserved better. A word of advice for what it's worth. Set out to correct the world's wrongs and you'll almost certainly wind up adding to them. My number, in case you change your mind. Thanks. But no thanks. It's time to end this. Tonight. - Get a team ready. - Yes, sir. You're late. I'd ask how you knew it was me, but I guess that's what we pay you for-- picking the right person out of a crowd. Of course I wanted to meet Control. And you're not Control, now, are you? Sadly, no. But I'm as close as you're gonna get. Hmm. You'd really put the program in jeopardy just to avenge your partner? I assumed a woman like you would have a more sophisticated world view. You people hired me because I don't care about most people. And then you went and killed the one person that I actually liked. Fair enough. Of course, you weren't supposed to be around to carry a grudge. You wanted to meet. Was it to find out why I let Wilson target you and your partner? Or just to kill me? Either way, we should go somewhere more private. You probably think I made a devil's bargain. And maybe I have. But the program is the reason we haven't had another major attack. If the public knew about what we do, we'd lose that ability. And Aquino? Again, a regrettable decision, but a necessary one. No one life is above the safety of millions of Americans. That's the ugly math that I have to deal with every day. You of all people should understand that. I do. And if I were in your place, I'd do the exact same thing. I may not be in the program anymore, but I-- I still understand how important it is. Then why the cloak and dagger? Cole's research on the Aquino case. I wanted to give it to you personally. Why not give it to Wilson? You can't hire people like Cole and expect them to act like sheep. Now, I know how to follow orders. But Cole was just brilliant, and he believed in the cause. And Wilson knew that. You know, you could've warned him. Or even me. But instead, you placed a kill order like we were some kinda problem to be solved. Your partner broke the rules. You're on the hook for that as much as he was. And then you screwed that up in such a spectacular fashion. How could I trust this idiot with something so important? Hersh was right. You are a good soldier. You didn't want revenge. You wanted to protect the program. A good soldier does both. Let her go. Let's clean this up.  You can holler, you can wail   you can swing, you can flail   you can Like a broken sail,   but I'll never give you up.   If I ever give you up   my heart will surely fail  You were a good operator. Sorry, Shaw.  And after all, God can keep my soul   England have my bones   but don't ever give me up   I could never get back up   when the future starts so slow  Lady just passed out in the street, unresponsive to CPR. EMT's called it as soon as they arrived. So this looks like a homicide to you? Sure. Woman her age, not a mark on her. I thought it suspicious. Can't expect the task force to show up. We were in the neighborhood, Officer Fleming. Yeah, we're probably looking at an overdose or cardiac arrest. Yeah, but, I mean, just to make sure, we ought to-- Why don't you grab yourself a coffee? We got this, okay? Thanks for your help. It's a full moon. Coroner's Office is swamped. You mind getting her downtown? Whatever you say, Detective. Hey, uh, little help here?  You can holler, you can wail   you can blow what's left of my right mind   You can swing, you can flail  She may be hot, but that's one broad I never wanna see again. I mean, ever! You guys never told me she was dangerous and crazy! Bad combo. What happened? I gave her the atropine and some demerol to knock her out. But she woke up on the drive over and almost killed me! Look-- look at this bruise on my neck. So I gave her some more. How much more, Mr. Tao? I don't know. I look like a doctor to you? Man. I so don't get paid enough for this crap. We don't pay you anything, Leon. I'm gonna widen the distance, fellas. You take your chances. Dying can make you thirsty. For guardian angels, you two were a bit late to the party. Your employers wanted you dead. So now you are. I guess Leon forgot the instructions about patting you down. Ms. Shaw, we're on your side. I feel like we've proven that you can trust us. Trust is overrated. Toss me your phones. Like I said before just in case you change your mind.  You can holler, you can wail   you can blow what's left of my right mind   you can swing, you can flail  Well, she certainly makes an impression. Do you think she'll call us a taxi?  You can holler, you can wail   you can blow what's left of my right mind
You are being watched. The government has a secret system. A machine that spies on you every hour of every day. I designed the machine to detect acts of terror, but it sees everything. Violent crimes involving ordinary people. The government considers these people irrelevant. We don't. Hunted by the authorities, we work in secret. You will never find us. But victim or perpetrator, if your number's up, we'll find you. _ _ The storm warning is for the coastal areas of Nassau and Suffolk counties, including East and South Hampton and Owen Island. Heavy rains and destructive winds will continue into the night. Residents are advised to prepare for evacuation. Isn't this service vest a little unethical? I am handi-capable, Mr. Reese, but I need some assistance. We don't want to exclude Bear from our rainy day activities. We should have seen Once Upon A Time In The West. Any word from our dearly departed Agent Shaw? Not a whisper. What worries me more at the moment is that we haven't heard anything from the machine recently either. Yes, I've noticed. Three days. No numbers. Maybe we're finally cleaning up the streets. As much as I'd like that, I have to wonder if it hasn't got something to do with the actually departed Kara Stanton. The virus that she uploaded during the time you spent in your bomb vest could easily have spread from the Department of Defense systems, all the way to the machine. You built the machine, Finch. Can't you access it? You know, check under the hood? I sealed it for a reason, Mr. Reese. I'm afraid you're going to have to wait and see what Stanton's employers have in mind for the future. Maybe your machine really is on the fritz. Has this ever happened before, Finch? It's a precedent. It gave us all six numbers at once? Spread out across the country like this. Very worrisome. Stranger yet, I can find no solid connection between them. Maybe they're plotting something together. Or someone's plotting against them. I wondered that. Three of the six numbers are listed on the NCIC missing persons database. Two of the others dropped off the grid entirely. No digital footprint at all. People with something to hide or hiding from something. And there's one local. Jack Rollins. He's an antiques dealer in Brooklyn. He hasn't been reported missing yet. That could be the next target. I'll go say hi. I'll enlist Carter's help looking into the other five. And I'll keep an eye on the machine's erratic behavior. Looks like Rollins runs his shop out of his apartment, Finch. There's no answer, so I'm going to let myself in. Rollins' taste in antiques is exotic. No sign of the man himself. But someone was already here and went to a lot of effort to dig up a bill for a rental property out on Owen Island. I found the account for Jack Rollins' Visa. Payments on the beach property and a train ticket to Suffolk County, all in the last 24 hours. Rollins was in a hurry to get out of the city. And we're not the only ones looking for him. Heading out in a storm like this? Rollins is running from something. I'll find out what's on Owen Island. Mr. Reese, is that a good idea? Storm or no, Finch, if Rollins is our one lead, I'm headed to the beach. Next time you need a favor, can we wait till after the monsoon season? Thanks for your help, Moss. - These files seem a little thin. - Because the cases are then. Dozens of reasons people step off the grid. Bad credit, old rap sheet. I mean, hell, sometimes people just disappear, Detective. First person to go missing was a French student studying abroad at Stanford, seven years ago. Post-collegiate wanderlust. Wouldn't be the first. What's your interest? What's the name at the bottom of that file? It's on the others too. Alan Fahey. Desk jockey at our CCSR branch. Handles cybercrimes, identity theft, mostly white collar stuff. Looks like he files one hell of a report. Yeah, he has a lot of notes. Seems like he's on to something. If you want, I can give him a call. - See what he's-- - No, that's okay. I can handle the follow-up. Well, I'm gonna beat the rain home. Okay. Agent Moss? I've been doing this job a long time. Heh, probably too long. All that business about Cal Beecher what do you know? Been doing my job for a long time too. And not having those IAB files, I can only surmise, but the kind of red flags they put up, Beecher is bad news. Steer clear, Carter. Okay This is Special Agent Fahey. This is Detective Carter of the NYPD. I've been looking through some missing person files that have your notes on them. The cases were connected through one potential MO, something about missing or destroyed photos you uncovered at more than one potential crime scene. Have you been able to chase down any new leads on that MO? I work out of headquarters in DC, Detective. I don't chase leads. I write reports that no one reads. Right. But I might have a new informant with additional information for this case. Well, I put all that information together months ago. I called the NYPD at the time. No one there was helpful. No one had anything to add. Now something suddenly just popped up? It's a confidential source. Confidential from the FBI? Nice try. Call the Bureau Liaison if you have any new information, otherwise have a nice day. Congratulations on your new They're evacuating the island, Finch. But I made it out to Rollins' rental house. Where are you? Well, I'm back at Rollins' in Brooklyn. Bumping around in the dark. Storm knocked out a transformer down on the street and all power within a nine-block radius. Why go back there? Detective Carter spoke with an FBI agent who's discovered a pattern in the crimes. There were no photographs of the missing persons at their homes. So I'm looking for photos, or a lack thereof. What's this? "Basement storage." I'm gonna take a look downstairs, Bear. Nothing to worry about. Empty photo frames. Just like the others. Mr. Reese, I've found something interesting in Rollins' basement. Finch, I didn't copy. Finch? Finch? I'm not alone. Bear? What are you doing? What is it? Mr. Reese, I think I know what happened to all those missing people. FBI, don't move. Hands up. I want to see some ID. Well, which is it? You want my hands up, or you want to see ID? Jennings. US Marshals Service. I'm trying to locate someone, a guy named Rollins. Got some questions for him. You looking for Rollins? Me too. I believe he's connected to-- To another missing persons case. We believe a wanted fugitive may be looking for Rollins. Is he here? I don't know. I just started looking. Well, why don't we take our weapons off each other and clear this house? Trail was hot on Rollins, but no one at HQ would get off their hands, follow up the lead. So I decided to come out here myself. You out here all alone? Well, it's been a few years since Quantico, but I remember a thing or two about working in the field. Well, you're on the right trail. Rollins was here recently, he couldn't have gotten far in this storm. My car is outside. Why don't we head to the local police station? We're gonna need a few more guys on this. Someone tried to destroy these teeth. But the flame wasn't hot enough to burn enamel. It could take some time, but if the vic's dentals are on file, we could get an ID. No, we can't wait that long. Assuming that the teeth belong to Jack Rollins, he was likely dead when they were removed. One would hope so, anyway. Well, whoever did this knows how to get rid of a body. They didn't just want to kill Rollins, they wanted him to disappear. We may be looking at more than a string of missing persons. We may be looking at a string of murders. Six victims. If our killer can assume these identities, then he would be a composite of all these missing persons in more ways than one. We're looking at a serial killer. Finch, what are you doing? Mr. Reese is out on an island looking for a man violent enough to pull out another man's teeth. And now I can't warn him. I have to get there myself. I'm pretty sure all the roads are closed now. How do you think you're gonna get out there? Think I'll use my pilot's license. I got a nor'easter touching down right now. I've got a population of 357 souls I've got to get off this island before I can't anymore. Chief of police is running the evacuation on the mainland. I'm the law left in the town with half its ass underwater. This is a matter of federal importance. - We're looking for this man. - Don't recognize him. But if he was a renter, he's probably been evacuated. Chief? Chief, come in. Mind if we at least make a few phone calls - while we're here? - Sure. If the cell and land lines weren't down, the power wasn't out, and the emergency radio didn't pick today to crap out on me. - Anything else? - Yeah. How's your coffee? Hey, gents, you may have jurisdiction and authority here, but one thing you don't have is my cooperation. For now, mother nature takes priority. Look, Marshal, we can't afford to sit around here with or without the deputy's help. I don't think we're on the trail of just a missing person here. I think Rollins is dead, and he may not be the only one. I think we're on the trail of a cold-blooded killer. You didn't want to share this earlier? Well, I didn't know all the facts. Technically, it's still just a theory. Tell me, what do you know about making a body disappear? This place is a ghost town. Yeah. Our uni's out are storm patrol. What brings you down here? You. I would have called, but you're not answering those, are you? So I decided to drop by, and maybe you could tell me what I did wrong. Cal, I'm working on something. I'll talk when I can. I guess I'll check in later. So how'd you get stuck on the island? We got water in the muffler and the engine died, so we came here-- Carly and I. That's my new bride Carly over there. We just got married. We're both dental hygienists. - Did I say that? - Yes. What did you mean earlier when you said Rollins wasn't the only one? I think we're on the trail of several crimes. I'm looking at multiple murders across multiple states. The killer must have taken the identity of his victim before moving on. I followed the trail back to that student at Stanford, then I worked forward. It turns out every victim of the killer moved cities within 18 months of vanishing. Rollins moved to New York. So I went to New York, found the rental bill. Followed him out here to Owen Island. Whoever was traveling as Rollins could easily still be on this island. Hi. Erica, we just lost the bridge. When did this happen, Stan? A few minutes ago. I locked up the bar, I saw Becky finishing the boards on the A&P. We high-tailed it down to the bridge just in time to see it go under. No crossing it until the tides go down. - And who's this guy? - Dennis Cunningham. I picked a bad day to check up on my hotel. So you're the guy building that hotel? On my drier days. We're 90 days out on that property. - If it washes away-- - There's more. On the way here, we saw someone. Down by the docks. Did it look like it was trying to get off the island? Looked like he was prepping a boat for himself. We have to get down there. I've now got five stranded people and no way off this rock, this is where I need to be. Absolutely, Deputy. So we'll go and bring him back here for you. Special kind of man ricks his life in this weather for a few crustaceans. Whoa, fellas, I'm just a fisherman. There's a lot of money in this haul. I didn't know I was breaking a law. You have ID? Don't get asked for it on the water. - What's your name? - Ethan Mattson. Well, Ethan, you're on land now. - Who's with you? - No one. Hey! I know you're there. I've got 15 shots here. Think it over. No need for shooting! I was just looking to get away from this storm is all! You from the island? No, I was looking for some work on the boats. Got stuck out here by the storm, thought I'd ride it out. Let's get them both back to the station. I don't care who you are, you can't endanger my citizens by landing your Cessna in the middle of my town. That's actually a De Havilland Beaver. What's going on here? This amateur storm chaser Harold Gull is under arrest. He landed his float plane in the town square. I needed a stretch of water to land and there was, well, water everywhere. - And what's all this? - My meteorological equipment. I've been a certified member of the National Storm Chasers and Spotters Association for over ten years. Deputy, despite this man's recklessness, could you book him with endangering our lives after the storm? We have bigger things to worry about. Fine. But when the storm ends, I'm hitting him with everything I've got. Hey, Stan, it's getting dark out there. You think you could put some more diesel in the gennie out back? Yeah, sure. The National Storm Chasers Association, Harold? Well, it worked, didn't it? We were wrong. This isn't a group conspiracy. Those numbers, they're all dead. And we're tracking their killer. I know. I had the displeasure of seeing all that was left of the real Jack Rollins, molars and all. Some twisted mind's idea of a trophy. What if the machine sent us all six numbers to tell us that someone had been all of those people? What if a smart killer was interested not only in taking lives, but in taking identities. Like a chameleon. Changing into his victims, living their lives until he gets bored and moves on to the next. To identify such a killer, we would want to consider who he has been, and what he might look like. Okay, so how do you spot someone who's that good at being anyone else? Excuse me, Marshal. That FBI guy needs to see you out back. You need to see this. Stanley put them out. Someone used diesel to try to cook the pile. The killer was here minutes ago. He's close. And he's shed the "Rollins" identity. Then he could be anyone in there. If the killer is among these people, then he's out of his element-- he's broken his pattern. Assuming the identities of his victims, it's part of his ritual. And now that rollins' ID is burned, he's trapped. He must have taken on another identity. And he can't go anywhere with it. He's as stuck as we are. Why didn't the machine give us his real identity? Why play games? I assume he's smart, and he digitally erased his original persona. I did. Well, we need to find a way to hunt him. We might be able to, Mr. Reese. Are you familiar with storm chasing? What are you watching? Didn't know if you were still too busy to talk to me. Actually, I could use another set of eyes on something. Take a look. This is a building-owned security camera in Chicago six months ago. A missing persons I'm working. Guy named Rollins. This is him leaving his shop, and him coming back the next day. Oh, he moved to New York soon after. - What do you notice? - That the same guy both times? - Why do you ask? - That's a close match. But the guy locking up is left-handed, and the guy unlocking is a righty. He's also a couple inches taller. - Exactly. - What are you looking at here? - Some kind of elaborate robbery? - Something much worse. So let me get this straight. You want me to conduct a series of interviews with everyone on the station and you want this guy to help? He's the only one who arrived on this island after the bridge went out. I know he appears a little strange, but he does have some interesting equipment in those bags. Yeah, well, unless he has a fingerprint scanner and the ViCAP database, what does he have that we need? Agent Fahey, is it? Are you familiar with the Instantel seismograph? Body armor? I don't think we'll be taking too much heavy fire with this group. Look, Jennings, I spend most of my nine-to-five tethered to a desk. I've questioned a few embezzlers and some identity thieves. We're about to walk into a room with a killer. And I' be standing right behind you. Thank you, Mr. Amis. I'm with the FBI, looking for a missing person on the island here. I'd like to ask you a standard series of questions, and I'd appreciate your cooperation. - Okay, so ask. - This is Jack Rollins. I'm trying to establish who had contact with him on the island recently. I don't recognize him. We don't get too many tourists this time of the year, but I would have seen him at the store. Who do you recognize at the station tonight, Becky? I've known Stanley most of my life. - Who don't you recognize? - That honeymoon couple for one. And where did you two meet? - We met in Albany. - We met in Albany. Why didn't you evacuate earlier? I told you, I've got a few thousand bucks crawling around in those traps you made me leave down on the docks. So you disregarded a state of emergency? I had to preserve my catch. You often pull in traps all by yourself? - How's it going? - Good. See all these tiny waves? They're called microseisms, and all these little bumps are the heartbeat. The needle picks it up like it would a tectonic shift, and it's picking up a lot. - And everyone else? - I'm getting clean readings. The metal in the table amplifies it. Everyone is steady. Stanley the bar owner is a little below average, but I think there might be something wrong with him. No, I just think his blood alcohol level could start a lawn mower. - But that fisherman in there? - He's nervous about something. I know Ethan Mattson. He's lived on Owen for five years. He gets into some trouble, but he's good on the boats. Do you wanna know who I don't recognize? Half of Owen knows Cunningham Properties, but I can't say I've ever said "hi" to his face. And that drifter? I mean, who comes to an island in winter looking for seasonal work? Ms. Winter, how long have you been the Dean of Student Affairs at Stanford? I'm wondering if you could shed light on a former student who went missing. Henri Musset? He graduated-- In 2005. I remember Henri. He was an international student. He went missing right after he graduated. Police called for weeks. Inspectors from France, even Interpol. There was a digital trail on the boy in San Diego, Just as we told the authorities then, Henri never left a forwarding address. We often lose touch with recent alumni until they settle down somewhere. So the last time Henri was seen was on campus. He lived in student housing. Did he have a roommate? Yes. His last year, it was a student named Alex Declan. It says here-- huh. What? I just see a note on Henri's housing form. He requested a new roommate his last semester. The last semester of his senior year? - Does that happen often? - Not usually. Most seniors have a million other things on their mind. But the matter seems to have been resolved. Do you have any records on Declan? That's strange. Declan is listed in housing as Henri's roommate, but I can't find his registration. No student photo either. Something must have fallen through the cracks. Dennis, you're such a busy guy. You don't get out to the island very often. I don't babysit my properties. But the hotel out here was days behind schedule. You think I want to slog around this sandpit in the rain? Victor, you don't have an ID. You don't have a solid alibi for being here on the island and, last of all, for being down at the boatyard. I told you. I was passing through. Recognize this? It's yours. You've got a lot of D-rings. Kind of weird. Unless you're a climber, or in the military. Do you have a heart problem? Because right now, yours is really pumping. Owen Island Station, this is Detective Joss Carter. Eighth Precinct, New York City, calling on the emergency police frequency. Do you read me? Over. This is Deputy Schmidt of the Owen Island PD. Who is this? Detective Carter from New York City. I have new information for the US Marshal on your island. I need to speak to him immediately. Who is it? Some detective from the city got through, said her name was Carpenter-- Carter-- Ugh! The generator. Do you read me? Over. Oh, my God. Is she-- is she dead? You shouldn't go out there. The storm's pretty bad. I'm following up on a lead, it's urgent. - I need to get to Owen Island. - Whoa, yo, I can't let you do that. - I don't care what lead it is. - I'm going, Kyle. I won't say it again. Okay but I'm driving. What's going on here? First you question us, and now this? You. You were helping them. What were they doing in there, really? They asked to use my equipment for police business. They were looking for liars in the group. Talking about finding a killer. Becky, what did they ask you? They asked me who I recognized here. - So who don't you recognize? - Everyone please settle down. You're building a hotel on the other side of the island. Nobody even knows your face. I have hundreds of business contacts in the city. Call any of them. And what good did that do, Harold? Behavior analysis, John. Just give it a minute. What about you, Mr. Newlywed? Nobody knows your face. Wait a second, I know his face. Everybody, we're forgetting, she was killed with a knife. - So whose knife was it? - I know whose it is. That knife? It's called a Ka-Bar. Not exactly something you pick up at a local bait and tackle. I didn't hurt anybody. You need to be a special kind of person to carry a weapon like that. Let me go. That's what I thought. I was lying. Okay? God help me, I was lying. But I'm not a killer. No. You're a Marine. The knife. The tattoo. The D-rings clipped to your bag. You're on the run. out of Camp Lejeune. Second tour. I couldn't go back. I wanted to get a boat to Canada. I got stuck here. So who else knew you had that knife? I don't know. I mean, I came into the station with the fisherman. Wait, where is the fisherman? - He must have slipped out. - I'll go after him. If I don't come back, get these people to safety. So do you think we can cross the entire state before you say a word to me? What do you want to talk about? I can think of some things. Like how an NYPD detective got aced out of the FBI because she keeps bad company, how about that? What are you talking about, the FBI? Not a friend of Internal Affairs, huh, Cal? Joss, I'm in Narcotics. We get pulled in by IAB half-a-dozen times a year. My neck of the woods don't mean a thing. It does to me. Makes me wonder about the man I trusted. Oh, what, you don't trust me? You think I'm dirty? That I'm on the take? Is that what you think? I don't know what to think, Cal. Yo, what did they tell you about me? Beecher! Slow down! You serious? What, you think I'd hurt you? I don't know. But I don't want to hurt you. Marijuana. This is what you were trying to protect from the storm. Unh! Unh! Huh. Oh, no, that couldn't be. Unbelievable. We're hunting a killer, and instead we get amateur drug night in the sticks. You smuggle it in on your boat? Ah, don't say anything. Just bleed if I'm right. Ordinarily, I'd make sure you went behind bars. But I got bigger fish to fry. So you go in the trunk. FBI. What gave me away? How did you know? The needle spiked in between the interviews. When I wasn't watching. When you were resting on the table. You should keep an eye on that heart rate. I knew you were too good at those interrogations. Who are you really? I could ask you the same thing. You're taller than I would have thought. And you cut your hair. And you bought every minute of the dedicated "Agent Fahey." Yes, quite the performance. Make a sound, I start hurting innocents. Let's take a walk. I thought a bit more privacy would do us some good. You know, the walls are closing in. You have no place to run. It's over. It's over for Fahey, sure. Just like it was over for Rollins. Was that before or after you tore teeth out of his head and threw them in a furnace? Damn things never burn. Sloppy, I know. But when the FBI's knocking on your door, you have to move faster than you should. Other agents will come looking. Like the last one? Federal agents always work in pairs. But this hard-ass showed up solo in a stupid blue windbreaker, knocking on my door, looking for Rollins. He talked to me. Seemed nervous. A little out of his element. Right then I knew I had him beat. He left me no choice. I had to kill him. Then I realized my only way off this island was to become him. Then this damn storm hits, and some cowboy US Marshal comes knocking. I was stuck as Special Agent Fahey, so I improvised. And the deputy. Why harm her? Well, I couldn't be sure what she heard off the radio. You always have to be ready to improvise. Honestly, the question isn't who I am. It's who you are. I watched you all night. I can always spot an impostor. I spotted you. Are you like me? You have no idea. You're an amateur at this. Not the way I planned it, man. I don't hurt people. And I didn't kill the FBI guy in that trunk. But you're in the way, so you go in the drink. Don't worry. As cold as this water is, it'll be quick. Hey, Ethan. Oof! Uhh! As quick as that? Now that Fahey won't get far, I think the mysterious Mr. Gull might be my next great challenge. You'll never get off the island. By morning they'll come here looking for the real Alan Fahey. And they'll find him in the trunk of his car. And what about you? And what about you? And what about you? And what about you? You asked the question and you're the answer. Your plane. You're gonna fly me out of here. You haven't outlived your usefulness. You could never be me because I save lives. You take them. No, I live those lives better than real people ever could. I follow them and watch them waste what they have. I do those identities justice. The things I've seen. The lives I've lived. One day I'll stop, when I find the person I'm meant to be. What? People like you don't stop. You can rationalize it however you like. But you hurt people because you like it. Because you're sick! You're maladjusted and you need help. On second thought, maybe I'll find another way off this island. I'll miss finding out more about you. If there's anything left to tell, I'll make it up as I go along. Don't worry, I'm good at that. Just like you. - You all right, Harold? - Detective? You have impeccable timing. How did you get here? I hitched a ride with the Coast Guard. And some very unpleasant people inside said they thought they saw you come this way. So is that him, our identity killer? He was pretending to be an FBI agent. He was really rather good at it. He had a badge and a gun and a-- And what? Body armor. What are you doing? It's a police station. There's bound to be one of these around here somewhere. Hey, listen I don't know what happened last night between us, but, uh, I'm wondering what happens today. I don't know what happens. But I'm glad you were here. A drug smuggler shot at me with a spear gun last night. Is that a first for you? Wish I could say yes. Glad you made it back, Mr. Reese. I am too. And I'm glad the machine was right. How so? It was smart enough to tell us about a killer with multiple identities. It may be true that the six numbers were not a glitch, but the three days of silence preceding it were. If the machine had been working properly, we might have gotten a number for the real Alan Fahey and saved him. Instead, an BI agent is dead. I wish I knew what that means for the future. At least the storm is passing. No, Mr. Reese, I have a feeling that it's just beginning.
You are being watched. The government has a secret system, a machine that spies on you every hour of every day. I designed the machine to detect acts of terror, but it sees everything, violent crimes involving ordinary people. The government considers these people irrelevant. We don't. Hunted by the authorities, we work in secret. You will never find us. But victim or perpetrator, if your number's up, we'll find you. This is the best day of my life. Listen, Candi, I just want to say I think you're really special. Hey! What-- Don't you knock? You stole our money. We want it back. Are you the Nigerian scammers? I can't believe you're actually Nigerian. Candi you set me up? I thought we had something. Hey, come on, g-guys. It's not technically a crime to scam a scammer! But it is a crime to cut out a man's intestines. And make him wear them as a hat. Wait, you plan to kill me? Probably. Okay, that's a big mistake. Yeah, you better get out of here. Right now, while you still can. Aah! Oh! Oh, okay. Okay. We have to stop meeting like this. I'm always so happy to see you. Next time this happens, Leon, I'm gonna be on vacation. I gather that Mr. Tao is intact. - He is. - Finchy! And seemingly unfazed by his most recent brush with death. Are you kidding? I'm distraught. That woman ripped out my beating heart. Let's go get me a drink. I need to work through this. Mr. Reese, please part ways with Leon as quickly as possible. We've received another number. That's the best news I've heard all day. You'll have to leave immediately. There's some travel required. You're going to Atlantic City. All right, Finch, I'm here. So tell me about our new number. His name is Lou Mitchell, a retired watch repairman. He's a widower with no children. His wife Marilyn died of cancer six months ago. I'm sending you everything I was able to find. Not much to go on, Finch. Like many people his age, Lou has no cell phone, no email, almost no digital footprint. We'll have to use a more hands-on approach. Got him in my sights now. Hey. Hey! Hey, you! What's a guy have to do to get a little popcorn around here? Luck isn't on Lou's side, Finch. Looks like he's burned through some cash tonight. Just point me in the direction of the pop secret. I'll make it myself, huh? Seems his game of choice is baccarat. Ah, he enjoys the classics. It's designed to be simple. Two hands. Player, banker. You guess which hand adds up closest to nine. I was an international spy, Finch. I know how to play baccarat. A natural nine. Banker bet wins. You make my arthritis flare up. Sorry, Lou. Better luck tomorrow. Sounds like he's a regular, Finch. Maybe Lou has lost too much money at the Venus Casino. We should look into his finances. All right, let's go. Come on, dealer. Come on, dealer. Day two. No sign of a threat. Who would want to hurt an old man anyway? Whoever Lou used to be, he's all bark now. Come on, come on. I'm growing roots here. Any luck hacking Lou's bank account? He has no online access. I'm having to hack his entire bank. I'm in. And it looks like Lou's coffers are nearly empty. He withdrew almost everything at the time of his wife's death. He's been living on social security ever since. If he's gambling money he doesn't have, he could be in trouble with loan sharks. A watch repairman without a watch and no wedding ring. Maybe he had to pawn off all their valuables. Seems likely that a gambling addiction is the root of the danger. Finch, I've seen hands like Lou's before. All of his fingers were broken. My guess, a long time ago in Atlantic City, he could have rubbed the mob the wrong way. - Hey, Lou. - Aw, Kelly. It's like you're pouring me into my grave. This new stuff, it tastes like mud. One day, Lou, I am gonna throw you right out the front door. Face it, Kelly, you're stuck with me. My ghost is gonna haunt this booth until the diner crumbles to the ground. What? What? What's the matter? The owner got an offer on the place. That flashy casino guy, Makris, wants overflow parking or something. Oh, God. Well, you tell him-- you tell him he's got to go through me. I'll show him where to park his damn cars. I may have found something, Mr. Reese. Lou's wedding announcement in an archival copy of the New York Journal. Anything useful? Seems that a friend of Marilyn's gave her away at the wedding. If Lou was involved with the mob, her parents might not have approved. I'll ask Carter to look into it. I'll try to determine the extent of Lou's debts. It may be that his gambling past is coming back to haunt him. Lou Mitchell pops up in Jersey organized crime records in the 1970s, got his ass handed to him. Gambling debts and arrests got him in trouble with some wise guys. You know if those wise guys still run that part of town? Nah, they're ancient history. But it's even worse these days. A lot of drug problems around the Venus Casino. Narcotics tells me they're looking into the guy who runs the place. - Thanks, Szymanski. - You got it. Carter, I got that disciplinary report you wanted on Detective Stills. It's just your garden variety abuse of power. Oh. Thanks, Terney. You got it. Joss. - Detective Beecher. - Hey. So I was thinking, since you didn't shoot me on the way out to Owen Island-- Yeah, you know what? Uh, come on. Then maybe that's your way of saying I should take you to Il Cuore. Table on the terrace? - Can I think about it? - Mm-hmm. But think quick. I made us a reservation Friday night. In the meantime, maybe you can help me look into this casino. Mr. Reese, I see you've returned to the casino. - Is Lou at the tables? - He will be soon. To do what? He has no money. $1,500. Tell that to the wad of bills he just forked over to the cashier. Looks like Lou's going further into debt. The casino attracts regular gamblers through a loyalty card system. If we could access Lou's, it would have information on his entire gambling history. Any way you can hack into the system? I've been trying since yesterday. Casinos invest heavily in their security, and their firewalls are of the tricky sort. But every Achilles has a heel, and theirs is greed. Their video blackjack game is connected to the internet so that online users can lose money too. I'm playing against you right now. You're not doing very well. Winning is not the goal. The game is so eager to let me play that it's allowed my malware to slip through. Remind me never to cross you, Finch. Oh, don't bet against me. Bad luck. I think you could hold your own. I'm sending you someone to ID, Finch. Guy acts like he owns the place. Indeed he does. Darien Makris. Bit of a local celebrity. He owns the casino. Detective Carter put him on my radar. The police have been looking into him for cocaine distribution, but he's never been charged. Oh, jeez, I'm sorry. Looks like I did ruin your luck. Listen, have you tried our slots? Come on, I'll give you a free spin. Eric here will point you in the right direction. Okay, I've given myself security access, so as soon as Lou swipes his card, I should be able to view his history remotely. Mr. Reese, Lou's lost nearly $2,000 a day for the last six months. Over $320,000 and counting. How does someone on a fixed income accrue that kind of debt? The real question is, how the hell did Lou get all that money in the first place? Lou must be borrowing money to gamble himself out of debt. And since he has the worst luck I've ever seen, he's only going to make his situation worse. But where is the money coming from? You should check into his old gambling pals, see if anyone is staking him. Has it occurred to you, what if Lou was a mobster himself? What, an old mafioso in hiding? I certainly hope that's not the case. I'll keep an eye on him. Finch If he's dangerous-- - I refuse to believe that that old man is capable of hurting anybody. He's cantankerous, but he's not a killer. Open up Interrogation Two for Szymanski. Let's go. - Szymanski-- - Carter Somebody's trying to set me up. They planted evidence. What? Offshore accounts. A condo in Miami. Then IAB finds this stuffed in a pillow in my apartment. This is an Internal Affairs matter. And this is a good cop. What is going on here? We received a reliable tip that turned out to be right. A tip? From who? Somebody in narcotics got word from a CI. Let's go, Szymanski. I'm supposed to testify today, Carter. They're dirtying me up to keep me off the stand. Judge, Peter Yogorov runs the Russian mafia. He's on trial for murder. Now obviously he had that evidence planted. It's clear-cut witness tampering. Now I plead a continuance until Detective Szymanski can testify. Hey. - I'll have him back in an hour. - All right. Mr. Yogorov, I heard the ADA lost her key witness in your trial. Lucky you. - Who the hell are you? - Let's take a ride. Mr. Yogorov I believe we can help each other. You're HR, yes? I heard you guys were finished. Well, you heard wrong. I also heard no one's ever seen the boss. Detective Szymanski is key to your case. He did the arrest, processed the crime scene. But now his testimony is under scrutiny, and everything he's touched is in question. Peter, we can make sure that you and your brother never see the inside of a courtroom or jail cell again. In exchange for what? Pulling strings costs money. We need cash, plain and simple. You get us back home, we have a deal. I must say, I'm not finding Lou difficult to tail at all. Perhaps I should have considered a career in the clandestine arts. Any luck on your mission? I just had a little chat with some of the more notable lowlifes here in Jersey, and they say that all Lou's old mob buddies are dead. Murdered? Natural causes. Lou's the last man standing. What about Lou's finances? Is he in debt to any criminal outfits or loan sharks? Not as far as these guys have heard. Guess that puts us right back where we started, huh? Mr. Reese, I think there may be more to Lou than meets the eye. In fact, I think there may be more to many of the gamblers we saw at the casino. Why do you say that? Several of them are also here at the pharmacy. And it does seem strange that Lou would pick up prescriptions two days in a row. I think I'll task an expert to help us do a little digging. I'll do some digging too. Oh, come on, man. The pharmacy is owned by Lionwood Enterprises. It's a shell company if I've ever heard of one. A shell? For whom? There are several board members, but they're all conveniently unreachable. I looked into the tax paperwork, and there's one partner left off the public listing. Does the name Darien Makris mean anything to you? It does, indeed. Thank you, Mr. Tao. You've been wonderfully helpful. Hey. You're gonna tail me around town, at least have the stones to introduce yourself, huh? Come on. Come on. I got it. Sit. What's your name? Harold Quail. So, Harold, you wanna tell me why you've been following me since I left my house this morning? I'm with the IRS, Mr. Mitchell. I'm looking into the Venus Casino. I was hoping to ask you a few questions. - Am I in trouble? - Not with me. But I have reason to believe that you might need some help. Where did you get all the money? You want answers out of me, you have to earn them. Baccarat. One answer per hand. From what I've seen, Mr. Mitchell, you're not that lucky. Well, this should go well for you. Bet. Player. Too bad. Looks like you owe me an answer. Why do you think I need help? You've lost $320,000 in the last six months. I imagine you are in very serious debt. No, no, no. House rules. I'm dealing. Banker. Oh, tough luck. How do you know I'm not independently wealthy? Because I've seen your taxes and your credit reports. Player. This is not your day, Harold. You lose again. What? Are you calling me a cheater, Harold? No one likes a sore loser. Mr. Mitchell, I believe that you may be in grave danger. Let me help you. When people need help, they think, "call the IRS." This guy's got the check! Mr. Mitchell, please, I Here you go, hon. Thank you. Hey, you like seafood? Go fish. Oh, dear. Got eyes on Lou, Finch. But where are you? I decided to return to the library. Decided? Lou gave you the slip, didn't he? When he deposited my keys in a tank full of crustaceans, I got the distinct impression that he didn't appreciate being followed. And, Mr. Reese, Lou is much luckier outside the walls of the casino. I think he's throwing those games at the Venus, but I can't imagine why he would intentionally lose his own money. Didn't you like the slots? Oh, no, you know, it's the same old thing over and over again. I thought I'd try the tables. Mr. Reese, that lady with the bouffant, she's losing money at the same rate Lou is. - So? - She's been doing it longer. She's down $405,000. And the woman with the fondness for tanning oil, $261,000. All of these people that we see with Lou, they've lost enormous sums of money. That's more than a coincidence. There must be a reason why they're doing that. You think they're losing intentionally as well? Why? Perhaps we should ask the man who owns both the casino and the pharmacy. Makris. If the police are right and Makris is running a drug operation, he needs to launder dirty money. He's using senior citizens as couriers. They lose the money at the tables, and it gets laundered into the casino's cash pool every day. The police wouldn't think twice about old people losing money at a casino. You know what else the police would never suspect? An old person picking up a prescription. Finch the pharmacy is a dead drop. Makris has got a whole stable of money mules transporting cash for him. These aren't exactly drug lords. Safe bet, Makris is forcing them to do this. But Lou's is the only number that came up. Why is he in more danger than the others? Maybe because he's skimming off the laundered money. And if Makris has found out, I bet he'd kill anyone to protect his investment. Detective Szymanski, did you talk to Anthony Marconi two nights ago? - No. Absolutely not. - No? Then when was the last time you guys talked? The last time I talked to that guy, his men shot me. It's bad business. Cal, the tip came in from Narcotics about Szymanski. Do you know who made the call? The star witness Look, Joss-- It was you? Who's your CI? You know I can't tell you that. Like hell you can't. You think I enjoy taking another cop down? The evidence speaks for itself. Then I guess there's nothing else to say. - Hey, Carter. - Yeah. I called one of the guys Stills reported at the 51st-- - Can we talk later, Terney? - Sure, sure. Okay, thanks. I need you to tell me the truth about something. There's no Santa. It was your parents. I'm serious, Fusco. It's about Beecher. Have you ever heard anything about him? Carter, you and I put a bunch of dirty cops away. But trust me on this, HR's not gone. Not by a long shot. Anybody could be on the take. As far as Beecher, I don't know. But if you follow that money they found on Szymanski, you might not like what you find. Ah, you burned through those chips fast today, Lou. You're killing me, Jen, killing me. Better luck tomorrow. Hey, old man. Got that popcorn you wanted. - Out of my way. - Sorry, gramps. You've been skimming from the boss. We gotta get you away from here. You can trust me. I'm with-- - Harold? Yeah, I figured. So I guess you're not really with the IRS, huh? Is it that obvious? Now I think you owe Harold some answers. Yeah. You want to tell me who you really are? That's not important. But when I said we want to help you, that was the truth. Why are you working for Makris? My Marilyn got cancer. Really advanced. Only hope we had was a stem cell treatment. We didn't have enough to cover it. I had to improvise. So you went to the casino. I was right, wasn't I? That's like calling a white truffle athlete's foot. I'm the best damn card mechanic in Atlantic City. So you got the money. Yeah, and the treatment. But sometimes, your luck just runs out. A few days after Marilyn passed, Makris got his hands on an old list of card sharps. He saw your name on the list, and he came around, asking for his money back, but of course you didn't have it. So he takes your wedding ring and Marilyn's jewelry as collateral, and he puts you to work laundering money. Said it would just be a couple of months. I get a feeling this is a lifetime gig. So is that why you started skimming? I lose everything he tells me to, so what if I win a little back? Clearly Makris sees it differently. Lou, I'm not going to let him come after you ever again. Yeah? In the meantime, it would be best if you left town. Here's a ticket, enough money to keep you comfortable. There's a lovely place waiting for you in Chicago. I can't leave Marilyn. There's a plot for me right next to her. It's got my name on it and everything. Lou, I know exactly how difficult it is to have to leave someone behind. You lost someone too? I had to move on. So must you. the mob caught me sharping. Beat me all to hell, broke all my fingers. Left me for dead. A waitress found me in a dumpster behind the diner. Marilyn. I was ready to give up. But she gave me something to live for, you know? Because of her, I gave up gambling. I used these hands to fix watches instead. She saved me, Harold. And she'd want you to save yourself now. Chicago will be cold. Don't worry, Lou, my associate will make sure Makris thinks you've been eliminated. So you think I'll be able to come back? Maybe. Eventually. At my age, there's not much eventually left. Lou's safe for now, but Makris will never stop looking for him. He knows too much. And we can't abandon all the other elderly people under Makris's thumb. Do we have the evidence to put him behind bars? Unfortunately, no. Money launderers keep two sets of books. The cooked numbers you show the IRS and the real books to keep track of your extralegal gains. At the moment, those books are beyond my reach. Well, what would we need to get them within your reach? A distraction. Here you are, sir. Thank you. There was a stripper pole in that thing. I feel weirdly grimy. So this guy's dealing drugs? That's putting it mildly. Based on the financial information I've seen, he's laundering profits on the order of eight figures. Wow. I'm jealous. Angry. I'm angry. He must be stopped. Indeed. Ergo, you are now Jason Bao, playboy millionaire. Welcome to the Venus, Mr. Bao. - Thank you, sir. - Right this way. When a high roller starts betting big, Makris and his security pay attention. If they're all looking at you, they won't be watching us. That's it, right up here. How much is this? $1 million, as you requested. Can we get some tequila shots, please? - Right away. - Absolutely. A million? You trust Leon with that much of your money? Absolutely not, but I'm afraid it's the cost of doing business. Whoo! Oh, wow! Good luck. Luck? Merely a construct, Mr. Reese. Ah, found the casino's servers. This shouldn't take long. Let Leon have a little fun at least. Finch, I thought you sent Lou out of town. I did. Well, not far enough. He's back. And it looks like he's gambling every chip he's ever skimmed. Player bet wins. Does he have any idea what he's doing? Makris thinks he's dead. Makris is not gonna like it when he sees a dead guy winning his money. Someone would like a word. Now. Look, I'll pay you back for the ticket. Lou, we're accessing Makris's personal files in search of the proof we need to put him away. We can't do that and protect you at the same time. I made a promise, Harold. To Marilyn, right before she passed. She grabbed my arm. She knew what I was thinking. That-- that maybe I'd, you know, join her. And she told me she didn't save my life, so I could throw it away. And you haven't. Laundering drug money? That's a living? And now to just run away? No. No, I'm taking back every dime I put in his pocket. Please. I don't want to die a loser. Very well. Then if we're gonna do this, we're gonna do it right. I think you can take Makris for more than the 320,000. But to win big, you have to bet big. So I'm staking you. And you'd better be as good as you say you are. $2 million, Mr. Mitchell. Good luck. Natural nine. Player bet wins. The more he wins, Mr. Reese, the more attention he'll get. You'll have to keep close watch on him. Finch, hurry up and get those documents. Pardon me. _ The goons you sent to kill Lou, they're in the trunk of a taxi headed to Vermont. You think that's gonna stop me? Mr. Reese, I've found the real books. I'm emailing them to you now. Your security will play nice, or the IRS and the FBI will see this. You're gonna let him play. _ Whoo! _ I'm finished. Where's Leon? You remind me of a girl Candi. Have you ever considered pink hair? $20,320,000. Direct deposit. Louis Mitchell. Mr. Makris. Congratulations, Mr. Mitchell. _ I can't believe it. I thought I was gonna die. Finch, we're out. Finch? Is that his name? We found your friend Finch. And Mr. Bao. You can't run a casino without being able to spot a fake. I was gonna do this quietly, but now we're gonna have some fun. Lou, I had such a nice surprise the other day. A dealer told me that your luck had finally turned. You walked away $500 up. And that's when I realized you've been skimming. Tens of thousands of dollars, right under my nose. Listen-- All you had to do was lose, old man. So before you die, I'm gonna make you realize that you are a loser. And that's all you're ever gonna be. You like games, right, Lou? Huh? Roulette's my favorite. It's just you versus the wheel. You may skate by for a spin or two. But in the end, the house always wins. I'll give you all the money back, just don't-- just stop this. Just stop it. Oh, he's safe. For now. Come on, man. You gotta save me. That's your thing! Not him either. The odds are getting worse. Sometimes your luck just runs out. Hey, dumbass I cheated. It's not like I'm still crying over Candi. But it's always the same story, you know? You find a girl you like. She's tall, she's pretty, and it turns out someone paid her to handcuff you to a bed, so they could murder you. Same old story. I gotta learn to protect myself. Maybe protect other people like you guys. That sounds like a great plan. I'm turning over a new leaf, dude. What? Saving people costs money! Carter. What's the rush? I think Szymanski was set up. - Really? - Yeah. Oh, Fusco, you were right about following the money. You know those marked bills IAB found in Szymanski's place? Well, the FBI placed them in a bodega run by Elias. Six days later, NYPD did a raid there, but the marked bills never showed up in evidence. They just disappeared. So either Elias moved the money or someone on the force grabbed it, giving HR a perfect way to set up a good cop. Wow, Carter, that's real police work. That should be enough to get IAB off his back. It was definitely enough to get him out on bail by the end of the day. And it should let him testify against the Yogorovs. Carter. _ Yeah? This means someone does have it out for Szymanski. You watch your back. You don't want them turning on you next. Thank you. I understand your winnings are tied up as evidence. Yeah, well, it doesn't matter. As long as it keeps Makris locked up. You know, your poker face needs work. You had plans for that money. I figured out why you skimmed all that cash, what you wanted to buy. What's that? A diner. That's you and Marilyn, isn't it? Yeah, this place was a home to us for 40 years, but the owner kept threatening to shut it down. I wanted to keep it alive. But now that Makris's offer is off the table, problem solved. Until another offer comes along. Yeah, well, nothing lasts forever. I've been meaning to have someone look at this. That's a $2-million watch. It was. Unfortunately, I stepped on it. If someone was interested in repairing it You know, your wife, the one you lost. She lost a good man. She's smiling down on you right now. Wait. You mean she's not dead? You know, for a genius, you're an idiot. It's too late, Lou. You're still breathing. It's not too late! Go to her, Harold. Today, while you still have time. _ You all right? I heard what Lou said to you. Oh. You were listening? Always. You did what you had to do to keep her safe, Harold. Lou doesn't know that. But I do. And if I were to return to my old life, it would eventually cost Grace hers. Some of us don't get to grow old with the one we love. You ask me, Lou's the luckiest guy I know. I'll grow old with her, Mr. Reese, just from afar. And beyond that, it's best not to think about it. _ Who is this? Tell your boss the deal's off. They didn't drop the case. The ADA just added more charges. Witness tampering. I should have known not to trust an old man. You know, Yogorov, you really ought to have more faith in my boss. As you know, the mayor is very invested in this case against the Yogorovs. So he's asked me, his chief of staff, to ensure that the case is moving forward, despite recent setbacks. These charges against Detective Szymanski have HR written all over them. We've been working on this case against the Russian mafia for nearly a decade. We are not gonna let the Yogorovs go anywhere. They can't intimidate us, and they can't stop us. We're gonna put the Yogorov brothers away until their grandkids can't remember their names. Exactly what I want to hear. Detective Terney are we clear on the story? Shooter ran out the back? Right shoulder. You got it, boss.
You are being watched. The government has a secret system-- a machine that spies on you every hour of every day. I designed the machine to detect acts of terror, but it sees everything violent crimes involving ordinary people. The government considers these people irrelevant. We don't. Hunted by the authorities, we work in secret. You will never find us. But victim or perpetrator, if your number's up, we'll find you. Justin Lee is dead, sir. And now that executive has started digging into the accident. Knowing her, she won't stop. Then see to it that she does. Interesting strategy, Mr. Elias. Care to explain? Trying to learn how to win at a disadvantage. I assume we're talking about more than just chess. Rook and knight, valuable pieces. The Assistant District Attorney and Detective Szymanski. Their deaths benefited your enemy, Peter Yogorov. That's very good, Harold. And I'm in touch enough to know that a number of your associates inside have recently been transferred elsewhere. Who are you playing against? The Russians? HR? A ghost. Someone I'd very much like to identify. From the board, I'd say the outcome is a foregone conclusion. Don't count me out just yet, Harold. I might have a few moves left. Give John my best. _ Miss me already, Finch? It's not a social call, Mr. Reese. I want to inform you we have a new number. I'll head back. No, you're tracking a number too, albeit a prior one. - Stay the course. - So who's up this time? Monica Jacobs, Senior VP of Strategy and Systems for Rylatech, one of the top networking companies in America. And the security is tight, right down to the RFID tracking chips in the employee ID. So how will you get close to her? I've found an appropriate cover. She's certainly a rising star in the tech world. Gushing profiles in blogs and national magazines. Not bad for a small-town girl from Indiana. Tech geeks and code monkeys. Doesn't sound too dangerous. Ms. Jacobs is a top executive in a billion-dollar business where corporate espionage is rampant. The threat could come from anywhere. - How's my day, Jerome? - Oh, let's go with slammed. Tovo at 10:00, New Technologies at 11:00, and then the florist called again wanting the correct address for the Lee family. Should we just let that go? No, I'll handle it myself. Wait is that the new - Centra-6 processor? - Yes. I thought they weren't coming out until next quarter. Is its variable processing as nimble as they say? Oh, I consider it a vast improvement in terms of energy consumption, overall efficiency-- I knew it. Anybody who says tablet hex cores are overkill-- Has no idea how to fully utilize CPU architecture. I agree. Well it's very nice to meet you Harold. IT is lucky to have you. I believe our network solutions proposal says it all. Rylatech's routers and switches have a 99.7% reliability rating. On the basis of what? Independent tests run alongside three of our five main competitors. Our firmware is self-upgrading. Like everyone else's, including Censatek who had better pastries. Look, what is your name again? Ross Haskell, Head of Product Development-- Ross, our VP didn't come here to listen to dry stats. Why should we use Rylatech's products? Because you already do. We've spent the last of the internet, and our latest components will set the standard for the next 15. Even the Department Of Defense trusts us to get their data from point A to point B. But, if you want just one reason, Martin Baxter. He started Rylatech in his parents' garage and built it into this. That determination, we all have it. We'll never stop working hard for you. Or, go with Censatek, who is known for offering kickbacks to networking execs along with their nice pastries. So how did you know about those kickbacks at Censatek? I have spies everywhere, Martin. Well, if they ever try to entice you to jump ship, give me a chance to match their offer. I can't imagine how we'd get along without you, Monica. Well done, Ross. Terney, I hear you're running point on the Szymanski and ADA homicides. - Yeah. - You got any leads? Oh, nothing solid yet, but we're pushing on all fronts. What about the Mayor's guy who got wounded-- Quinn? All he remembers is that the shooter was wearing a mask and he ran out the back door. - Keep me up to date. - Will do. Carter. Just calling to check in, Detective, and to say how sorry I am. I know that Detective Szymanski was a friend. Thanks, Finch. Appreciate it. If there's anything I can do for you Um, I'll let you know. Talk to you soon. Hey. I know you don't want to talk to me. - But look, about Szymanski-- - There's nothing to talk about. Unless you're ready to tell me the name of your CI who got him killed. - Joss-- - Like I said. You okay? Beecher got a tip about dirty money on Szymanski. I prove the money wasn't his, Szymanski turns up dead? I gotta know if beecher set him up, Fusco. - I'll see what I can find out. - Okay. Good evening, Mr. Reese. Have you made contact with your quarry? Not yet. You keeping track of yours? Yes. Thanks to the chips in the ID cards, I can see the location of every employee in the building. Identify any potential threat? So far, just overwork and the consumption of raw seafood. Ms. Jacobs is dedicated, passionate, technically astute. You've got a crush on this number, don't you, Finch? A human being can recognize qualities in another human being without-- She's leaving her office. It's strange. I followed her to the R&D floor. She's in the computer storage room. Appears to be looking for something. Like what? I'm not sure. _ Why would someone in Ms. Jacobs's position be sneaking around stealing computer files and hiding from corporate security? I know you like this woman, Finch. But if the Agency taught me one thing it's that the most effective spy is the one you'd never suspect. A true believer. Mr. Reese? - Mr. Reese, are you there? - I gotta call you back, Finch. Hello, Shaw. I thought I just might find you here. And you decided to drop in for a visit? Stakeouts can get a little tedious. And what made you think I wanted the company? The time I shot you, or the time I ditched you at the cemetery? I'm persistent. Or maybe you just can't take a hint. Darlene and Evan Cole. Your former partner's parents. Dead partner. The government framed Cole as a domestic terrorist. I thought you might come back here to set the record straight. How'd you figure that? It's what I'd do. Control killed their son. They didn't need to take their memory of him. Even the CIA wouldn't stoop that low. They'd just sweep their mess under the rug and give him a star on the wall. Your former employers killed Cole for discovering the truth, and nothing's stopping them from killing his parents, too. But you already know this. That's why you're out here and not in there. Next time you want some fresh air pick a different spot. A friend once told me, in our line of work, we walk in the dark. Doesn't mean we have to walk in it alone. Well, I'm not sure the source of your problem is a virus. It's more likely mochachino. I'll try to find you a new keyboard. Thank you. Now what was it you were stealing? What are you doing in Ms. Jacobs' office? Security update. We just had an update a week ago. Well, we've since discovered additional threats to the network that needed addressing. And what threats might those be, specifically? A complex Kernel-mode rootkit that disables secure subsystems through compromised applets, and I'm sure I don't need to explain to you how dangerous that could be if the update were not installed. All set. You're welcome. - Hey. - Hey. - What are you thinking? - They ran out of paper towels. I'm talking about you refusing to say who gave you the tip on the Szymanski money. The bills were marked by the feds. Found in a raid on a bodega that Elias was operating out of. So? Money never made it to evidence. So either Elias's boys got a hold of it or some dirty cops did. Either way, it stinks. You saying I had something to do with it? I'm saying Szymanski got set up. And by you keeping quiet, makes me think you were in on it. See, I got friends who used to work in your old precinct, Fusco. I heard about your crew. Two are in jail and one's missing, and you're calling me dirty? Let me spell it out for you. - Stay away from Carter. - Or what? What's going on, fellas? That's a good question. What is going on? I can do that for you, Monica. Oh, it's okay. I've got it. You want me to pick you up some lunch? No, I have a meeting. I don't have anything scheduled. Oh, it was a last minute thing. I didn't bother putting it on the calendar. - Mr. Reese, where are you? - On my way. You learn what our number's up to? I believe Ms. Jacobs is about to hand off some sensitive information. So Monica. Or perhaps not. I'll patch you in. what was so urgent I had to cancel my lunch and meet you out here? Justin Lee. He's one of your engineers in R&D. Yeah, he died in an accident a little over a week ago. It was tragic. I discovered something concerning. When I had flowers sent to his parents, the florist said no one by the name of Lee lived at that address. People move, change their address. I checked. The parents never lived there. It's not just that. Everything about Lee, from his contact information to his work history, was a lie. I think he may have been a plant. A plant? For who? Could be any of our competitors. That's why I didn't want to have this conversation at the office. And then, there's this. She just gave him the flash drive that she used last night. I found Lee's computer, made copies of his files and found a handful of encrypted emails sent the day he died. I tried, but I couldn't open them. Who else knows about this? Just you. Seeing as he worked in your division, I thought you'd want to get out in front of this. I do. I'll look into it. Then we can tell the old man together, okay? And, Monica thank you. I need to see the emails on that drive. I'll have to contrive a reason to get into his office. I have a better idea. Excuse me. Nice to have you back. Thanks for meeting me, Mr. Quinn. How's the shoulder? It's getting stronger day by day. You sounded concerned on the phone. There's been some questions about the Szymanski investigation. Like, who my source was about the money. - And you said? - Nothing. You asked me to keep your name out of it, and I have. Thing is, uh, I've been wondering myself. Where did that tip come from? Well, the tip was strong. Why does it matter? A dead detective's reputation is on the line. It matters. Cal, in my position I'm constantly being offered information. And the reason people come to me is they know I will keep their confidence. Right. Uh, look the tip came from one of Elias's soldiers. Since Elias has been in prison, his men have struggled. This guy was just tired of seeing Szymanski getting paid while he scraped by. Now, I could have given that information to anybody, but I wanted my godson to get the credit for it. I imagine whoever's questioned you wish they had made the bust. Don't let them rattle you. We good? Yeah. Thanks, Mr. Quinn. Anytime. He gonna be a problem? Let's hope not. So Monica wasn't spying. She was hunting a spy. Which means the threat may be coming from whoever Lee was spying for. I've asked Detective Carter to look into his death. Ms. Jacobs's phone seems to be syncing. She's not doing it. - Then who is? - Good question. They're adding contacts, appointments, phone calls she never made. Mr. Reese, something's terribly wrong. Excuse me, this is my office. You'll need to wait here, please. What the hell's going on? I'd ask you the same question, Monica. But by the looks of it, the answer's pretty clear. Security found confidential designs and documents on your computer. Ross, I told you those files were from Lee. Then why were they attached to emails you were preparing to send to our main competitors? Phone calls, meetings. You were meeting with anyone and everyone. What? Lee wasn't the spy. You were. That's impossible. Jerome knows my schedule. I should have said something, Mr. Haskell. She's been acting strangely for a while now, keeping her own schedule, making off the book appointments. Jerome! I'm sorry, Monica. I don't know what you want me to say. - Martin, listen-- - Monica, please! - Security will show you out. - You're firing me? Effective immediately, with civil and criminal charges pending. Martin, I've worked for you for ten years! Then you can afford a good lawyer. This way, please. You this is a mistake. I wasn't stealing anything. If you just let me explain Ms. Jacobs has just been terminated from Rylatech. Someone may be trying to silence her. I'm afraid they won't stop until they've done so permanently. Good morning, Mr. Reese. Any news on Ms. Jacobs? Yes. She's having coffee, right in front of Rylatech. Something tells me she's not taking her termination lying down. I've gone over everything that Ms. Jacobs collected on Justin Lee, the potential spy she was looking into, and she was right. Lee's been operating under a remarkably deep cover. Take his degree from MIT. Certified with a slightly outdated seal. His New Jersey birth certificate, medical history. Whoever set this up-- They're pros. That's how they were able to frame her so quickly when they discovered she was on to them. The question is, who did the framing? If I could decrypt his emails, they might tell us. She's tailing her assistant, Finch. Hope you don't expect me to play. No offense, Detective, but my opponent is someone who brings a little more to the table, and you're breaking my concentration. I'll cut to it, then. Detective named Szymanski. Organized crime. Was he on your payroll? Afraid you made a bad move, Detective. Just trying to get some answers. Then start asking better questions. Who benefits from Szymanski's arrest and murder? How could one arrange these acts without being suspected? And who's at the center of the strings that were quietly pulled? See, I think you something you don't even know you know, which means you're playing a chess game of your own, Detective. You just don't realize it yet. Did you give money to Szymanski? Absolutely and he threw it in our faces. He was clean, and you got played by HR. It was nice meeting you, Detective Beecher. Word of advice. Choose your next move wisely, or it's going to be chosen for you. Detective Carter, have you had a chance to look into Lee's death? That's why I'm calling. His BMW's black box said there was no impact from any other car. No brake or system failure, just simple accident. I decided I'd take prints off the body, see what popped in the system. Did the prints tell you anything? Couldn't get them. The body's gone. What? Searched that morgue for 45 minutes. Somebody got in there, got your boy, Lee, vanished without a trace. Not bearing good news, I assume. Beecher's looking for answers. One of our guys at Rikers saw him, with Elias. Looks like your talk with him didn't do the trick. That's a damn shame. We could promote him out of town. Desk job upstate. I always told Cal to be careful. Being a cop's a dangerous job. _ Jerome! - Monica. What are you doing here? - What happened yesterday? Why did you say those things? Were you following me? Let go. Not till I get some answers. I don't answer to you anymore, bitch! Now, be nice, and answer the lady's question. In English, not Mandarin. Who are you working for? You're wasting your time. There's too many of us. Aah! Get down. - Who are you? - Right now, an easy target. Mr. Reese! - I have news. - Can it wait, Finch? I've cracked Lee's encrypted emails. They're messages, reporting back to his father, a high-ranking official in the Chinese Communist Party. What are you saying? Lee wasn't spying for a company. He was spying for his country. We just picked a fight with the People's Republic of China. Where are you taking me? Someplace safe. Let's use the new accommodations, Mr. Reese. I'll catch up to you as soon as-- It's not nice when someone hunts you down, now is it? What brings you here, Ms. Shaw? I assume you wanted me to find you. Why else would you have given me your number? I guess I imagined that you would just call, but I suppose this works too. My offer still stands, you know. You think I should have a hobby. Now what would that be? Hanging around a derelict library with you, your poorly-socialized guard dog, and Bear here? Bit of a comedown from saving the world, I guess, but we have our moments. And what's your end, Harold? Is this your hobby? Running a halfway house for retired assassins? I hate to see talent go to waste. Awfully trusting of you, now, isn't it? I'm quite confident, Ms. Shaw, that you are the first person that's ever said that to me. Besides, you're not holding a firearm. Looks like progress. What can I do for you? _ Interesting story in the news this morning. A CIA operative died in the line of duty on a covert operation. He'd uncovered a domestic terrorism plot. Now, the Agency would neither deny or confirm this, of course, but a journalist received leaked documents from within Langley itself. I saw the story too. It's very sad. He seemed to have died heroically. You and I both know that Cole did not work for the CIA. So I have this crazy theory that someone hacked into one of the most powerful, clandestine agencies in the world and created an employee who, up until yesterday, did not exist. That does sound somewhat farfetched. My friend from the hotel. Our conversation was cut short. Yet we seemed to have so much in common. Tell me about her. My relationship with that woman is rather complicated. What's your interest? You think I need a hobby, Harold? I think I just found one. Traitor. Lee was a spy for China? Looks that way. Any idea why China might be interested in Rylatech? Our proprietary designs keep us at the forefront of the industry. Maybe they want to steal our work. Or sabotage it. Lee could've been secretly altering your designs, making them unworkable. And Jerome? Probably there to keep an eye on you. He was my assistant for over two years. And now he's dead. We won't let that happen to you. We? - Miss Jacobs. - Harold? I'd have been here sooner, but a friend of yours stopped by to say how much she enjoyed your chat the other night. Wait so you're not an IT guy? Not in any traditional sense, but perhaps we should set those questions aside until we've dealt with whomever it is that's trying to kill you. Now, I expect that it was more than just your assistant who was working with Mr. Lee. To place someone in a division as secure as Research and Development? They need someone with access, hiring approval. Well, R&D is Ross's division. He's the only one I told about Lee. Well, I-I need to go to the police, or FBI. - They're expecting you to. - While you're being questioned, they'll be destroying any evidence that could implicate them or exonerate you unless we get to that evidence first. All my network requests are being blocked. Did you try the web interface? Yes, but I can't access settings, or the RPC portmapper. May I? This was one of my babies. Completely rebuilt the interface, disabled the portmapper. Secondary authentication? Added for access to the FTP and SNMP. If you two would rather be alone I made it virtually impossible to hack into our company, and now here I am doing just that. Ten years of my life. Nights, weekends. You know how many offers I turned away? That's a rare kind of loyalty these days. Truth is, I never wanted to work anywhere else. Those people aren't just co-workers, they're my family. And now they think I've betrayed them. The look on Martin's face You may be down, Monica, but you're not out. Not yet. If I can get past this server firewall, we should be able to locate the hidden network that Lee and the other spies are using. Uh-oh. - What is it? - We've been hacked. They've broken the password coded into the laptop's battery. Hijacked the firmware. Get back. Get back! What happened? They disabled the micro controller that regulates the battery's charge. Spies must be monitoring the network. - So what now? - If I can't get through the firewall? I'm not sure. What about bypassing it all together and directly accessing the servers? That would require going back inside Rylatech. - I could show you where to go. - It's too risky. Everyone in that building knows your face. Ms. Jacobs, do you still have your employee ID card? Yes, but it's been deactivated. Besides, the locator chip would tell security exactly where I was. Yes, I'm aware. She's not allowed on the premises. Let's go. Up on the left. Bear, stellen. Stellen! In here! You're clear, Mr. Reese. Let me know when you find the server room. We're in. Now see if there's a catalog server. Catalog server? Here. Transmitter's installed. He should have access. Now I'm connected. Let's see what we can find. How are we looking, Finch? I've found lots of high-level, encrypted traffic using a suspicious amount of bandwidth. We don't have much time here. I'm working as fast as I can, Mr. Reese. Oh, that's interesting. - What? - Nothing. I've located the end users receiving the traffic. - You mean the spies? - Yes. It appears that we may have underestimated the scale of the operation. That's over half of our senior-level employees in every department. All this rerouted traffic seems to be coming from an unending number of networks belonging to the government. Military, banking institutions. These are Rylatech clients. But how-- Our routers and switches. They've been compromised. They have back doors. The spies aren't spying on Rylatech. They're using Rylatech's technology - to spy on the entire country. - My God. Who are these people? Mr. Reese, I fear that our own spying has been detected. You and Ms. Jacobs need to get out of there, now. I couldn't agree more, Finch. Unh! Mr. Reese, are you okay? We're fine. But they've got operatives inside the building. They're communicating on an internal SMS network receiving messages from a single location, the office belonging to Ross Haskell. Where's Haskell's office? This way. Mr. Reese, there's something you ought to know about Haskell. His name's not on the list. Haskell is not one of the spies. Oh! Drop your weapon, now! Martin? Martin! You? I know how this looks, Monica. How it looks? You're a murderer, and a spy for China. No! I'm just protecting what I've spent my life building. How could you do this? Simple economics. When the dot-com bust hit, we were bankrupt. A prime takeover target. And then an opportunity presented itself. To save your company by selling out your country. Who the hell are you? That doesn't matter. He's right. He's a fool. The world has changed, Monica. There is no value placed on outdated notions like patriotism anymore. And companies like ours, we have to constantly look forward to the future so that we can prepare for what comes next. And what's that? Selling information instead of protecting it? Controlling it. Because whoever controls information will control the future. And what about what this company supposedly stood for? The great American success story. People love stories. I believed it. Of course. And that's why you were so good at your job and why you could never be trusted with the truth. Just like Ross, one of several victims of a disgraced former employee who broke in, shot him, and then turned the gun on herself. Mr. Reese, I've alerted the authorities, and I've sent the evidence to the FBI. Your plan won't work. The feds are on the way. - Yes? - Mr. Baxter. Do you recall our discussion the day we sealed our arrangement? Yes. The time has come. Your family will be provided for. I understand. Oh! Oh! Mr. Reese? Mr. Reese? We're okay, Finch. They're all gone. We couldn't do whatever this is at our desks? This? No. Did you give money to Szymanski? Absolutely, and he threw it in our faces. He was clean, and you got played by HR. Beecher was trying to find out who set up Szymanski. It means he wasn't in on it, Carter. And that someone in HR used him. We need to get this to IAB so they can-- Whoa, whoa, whoa, IAB? Not like this was a court-approved wiretap. You wanted to know about Beecher, now you know. - I'd let it go. - Let it go? Fusco, do you know who gave Beecher that tip? You'd have to ask him. Carter, Beecher could be walking through a minefield. I'd be careful before I go and follow him. He's carrying, but he won't talk to me unless he sees I'm fit to buy. All right, when the deal's done, I'll make the bust. If it goes right, you can keep half. - Beecher. - Hey. You busy? On a job. When you're done, buy you a drink? We need to talk. Yeah, okay. I'm in Washington Heights but could meet you back at the Eighth. I'll wait for you. Hey, hey! Donnie, what are you doing? - Yo, let me get clear. - Clear of what? I repeat, shots fired! - Carter. - Detective, it's urgent that we reach Detective Beecher. Is he with you? No. Why? Did you hear? Officer in distress, Washington Heights. Washington Heights? Cal! Cal. Come on, Carter. Come on. Shocking news out of Rylatech today. Police discovered the bodies of CEO Martin Baxter and VP Ross Haskell in an apparent murder-suicide when-- Rylatech stock plunged amid rumors of spies within the company's ranks. Federal investigators have shut down operations and ordered all Rylatech products at government sites be immediately replaced. Further inquiries are pending. While we were off fighting international espionage, things have gotten worse in our own backyard. Whatever game Elias is caught up in, it grows more dangerous every day. Ms. Jacobs, how are you doing? Oh, not bad, considering the company I devoted the last ten years of my life to is under federal investigation. And, please, we breached firewalls together. Call me Monica. So where will you go from here? Ah, I've had some offers come in. Though the one I'm most intrigued by is from a company called IFT. I think I've heard of them. They're doing some interesting things in CPU architecture. Sounds like a good fit. I wish you the best of luck. Take care, Monica. You too, Harold. You're gonna miss her, aren't you, Finch? I would if I had time. As it is, there's a matter that we need to discuss. The night we broke into Rylatech, I recognized some of the encrypted code in the spy's network. It had a signature similar to that virus that Stanton uploaded. I was able to crack the virus's code and learn two things. I'm all ears, Finch. First, only a fraction of the stolen data made it to the Chinese government. The rest went to another organization. I believe they may have placed the final call to Baxter. I dug further, but all I could come up with was a name-- Decima Technologies. And the second thing? Whoever Decima is, I believe they created the virus to find and infect a single target the machine. Unfortunately, we've had to pull up stakes in Rylatech. But, as expected, the US is entirely focused on China's involvement and not ours. Oh, one small wrinkle. The breach of our encrypted network appears to be the work of a single individual. I shall do everything in my power to determine his identity and render him irrelevant. Our larger operation is, of course, still on schedule. _
You are being watched. The government has a secret system, a machine that spies on you every hour of every day. I designed the machine to detect acts of terror, but it sees everything, violent crimes involving ordinary people. The government considers these people irrelevant. We don't. Hunted by the authorities, we work in secret. You will never find us. But victim or perpetrator, if your number's up, we'll find you. I think we're up against a world of corrupt cops. They steal the drugs, the cash, and they kill all the witnesses. Stills is narcotics. Yeah, I know damn well what happened to Detective Stills, and so does Detective Fusco. I'll tell you everything you want to know. Our new number is receiving an award today, Finch. Three decades of teaching and critical research, chief of cardiac surgery, a leader in the field of heart transplants, a pioneer in off-pump bypass cardiovascular surgery. He has held the hearts and lives of hundreds of patients in his hands. And today we are proud to bestow upon Dr. Richard Nelson the title of Professor Emeritus. Sounds like our latest number has a brain almost as big as yours, Finch. If only mine were attached to a surgeon's hands. Doctor, scientist, teacher, admired by his peers. Seems unlikely he's a perpetrator. Which makes me wonder if his killer could be in this crowd. _ Thank you, Dr. di Matteo, for those kind words. Uh, you left out scratch golfer. Uh I think it was Plato that said knowledge is the food of the soul. In these trying times, we should heed the words of Plato, "He who commits injustice is ever made more wretched than he who suffers it." This injustice will never diminish the life and actions of a good man. My godson, Calvin Beecher. Brave to the end. May he rest in peace. Present arms! Ready! Fire! Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you for coming. Thank you. So, hey, what's next, Dr. Nelson? Do I need a new cardiologist? Brandon, what are you doing here? Come on, it's not often your doctor gets emeritus. You deserved it. Thanks, but I'm not going anywhere just yet. One of Nelson's patients is here, Finch. Brandon Boyd, a trader at VAC Capital, a prominent hedge fund. Asset management for high-income clients. I guess I'm gonna have to start giving more attention to my retirement portfolio, huh? Racquetball Thursday? You give me a rematch, I'll pick your brain about some emerging markets in the health care industry. Thursday at the club, you're on. - All right. - Thanks. - Not so fast, Doc. - Hey. If you're gonna rot your gut, you might as well do it in style, right? '62? Dr. Rossmore, where did you locate such a magical elixir? Oh, I have a patient who owns a very large distillery, and he has a new heart that came from you. - Listen, Garrett - Mm. about the Philia drug trial, I'm really sorry about the board's recommendation-- Nonsense. It had nothing to do with the board or with you. We didn't have the data to support it. Dr. Garrett Rossmore, esteemed colleague and research scientist. He now works for Philia Pharmaceuticals. Big pharma, he's a drug guy. Rossmore developed a new statin to raise HDL and combat cholesterol. Made it all the way to phase three in trials, until it underperformed. Dr. Nelson was a member of the independent review board that halted the trials. Potential blockbuster drug down the drain. Likely cost Philia billions in lost revenues, not to mention six years of Rossmore's research. That had to hurt. I know you had a hand in this. I know you were behind Beecher's murder. You're not gonna get away with this. Tell me, Fusco, how is it everybody around you winds up getting killed? Starting to look suspicious. You're gonna pay for this. I'm gonna take you down. You got a bad habit of forgetting who your friends are. Of all your old pals who got locked up or went missing, and you're the only one who got to walk away? Did you honestly think that was because you were so smart? What are you talking about? Protection. The kind you don't have anymore. See, I hear things. IAB, they're looking at your old pal Azarello on at least a dozen old murder counts. That should be interesting. Past has a way of coming back to haunt you. And by the time I'm done with you, Lionel, you're gonna wish you were in the ground with Beecher. - Ah. - Congratulations, Doctor. It's nice to see someone being recognized for their body of work. I should be so lucky one day. Associate Professor Dr. Juliana di Matteo. Came up as Nelson's research assistant and protege. But still hasn't made tenure. - Have you seen my daughter? - I think she saw me first. Probably why she left so early. Oh, uh-- Richard, are you okay? Your nose is bleeding. Oh, gosh, I'm gonna go get something. Thank you. Mm. - Here you are. - Oh, thank you. Nelson has a daughter here, Finch. Molly Nelson, registered as a junior but suspended for a semester after assaulting a police officer during a campus demonstration. - You need some help, sir? - I feel a little light-headed. - I just need to sit down. - Sure. I'll get you some water. Thanks again. Our doctor doesn't look well, Finch. Clammy hands, nosebleeds. Just hope we're not too late. Excuse me, Detective Fusco? Detective Soriano from Internal Affairs. We need to talk. - No, we don't. - I'm afraid we do. It's regarding the disappearance of Detective Stills. And we're gonna have to ask for your badge and your service weapon. What's this about, Fusco? This don't concern you, Carter. No? I'm your partner. I think it does. This got something to do with Cal's murder? No. Talk to me, Lionel. Why is IAB all of a sudden putting the screws to you? You know, I tried to come to you. In this very room. To tell you about past mistakes I've made. But you didn't want to hear it. I'm listening now. Just chickens coming home to roost. Bad things happen to people around me, Carter, so you should get out of here. We're not done here. Finch, what do you need? I'm sorry for your loss, Detective. Yeah. Thanks. Just don't understand, with all the information you get, how we couldn't stop this in time. It's a question that troubles me as well. I only wish I had an adequate answer. And I know this is not the best time, but-- You and John need some help. Are you kidding me? Cal is dead, and Fusco's being investigated by IAB. I understand that you're upset, but we have a doctor in peril. I just need you to check on a few names. No. No. This time, you're gonna do something for me. Okay, Detective, what can I do for you? You know that phone cloning thing you do? My turn. Hello? Thanks for showing up. I guess it was better than that stunt you pulled last week, throwing the red paint. Sorry, dad, but people have the right to know the medical school uses animals for research. Sounds like Nelson has some issues with his daughter. And you have the right to know that this university paid for your food, clothing, and the roof over your head for the past 22 years, not to mention your tuition. Sorry if I disappointed you, dad. Oh, damn it, Molly, that's not the point. Uh, I have to go. We'll talk about this later. The Doctor just vomited blood. Nelson in serious trouble. I'm going in. Hi, this is Dr. Richard Nelson. I think I may have ingested something toxic. - Sir, you're a doctor? - Yes. I think someone may have tried to kill me. You look like you need some help. Aah! You! I know you from the reception. - Get away from me! - Wait, Doc-- - Who are you? - No-- - NYPD! Who called 911? - Me. I called it in. I want to report a murder. Murder? What are you talking about, buddy? - Who was murdered? - Me! Someone poisoned me! Finch, things just went completely sideways. And judging by his symptoms, we're already too late. We've received some new information on an old case. You and Jimmy Stills worked together in the 51st? Yeah. So did a lot of other cops. But you two were close? I don't know if I'd put it that way. Oh, and how would you put it? We walked a beat together coming up. He went to Narcotics. I went to Homicide. That's the long and short of it. Last call! Hey, O'Neill-- O'Reilly, O'whatever the hell your name is, give us a drink. Nah. You're done. Come on, it's time to hit the bricks, buddy. What are you talking about? We still got five minutes left. Easy there, big dog. That's enough for one night. Let's get you home. I can't go home. She threw me out. Ah, comes with the job. Cop's wife. She'll come around. Not this time. She had a lawyer drop papers on me. Serious? Sorry to hear about that. Yeah, Jimmy, she-- she wants full custody of my son. Hmm. Come on, Lionel. You come home. You stay at my place tonight. The kids will love waking up tomorrow morning, jumping on your head. I'll have Vera cook up some hotcakes, banana-chocolate chip. Throw some Aspirin in the batter. Okay, amigo? You sure it's okay? What are friends for? Let's go. I'm retracing the Doctor's steps, and I'm already detecting low-level Alpha particle emissions, Mr. Reese. Not good. Alpha particle radiation. It's polonium. Polonium? Sometimes used to make complex tools in scientific equipment. Do you think he was exposed in the lab? No, it's only lethal if ingested and you don't get treated within the first hour. Well, the area's contaminated, but it doesn't appear to be the point of origin. What's Nelson's condition? I'm about to find out. You. No, you're that waiter. You had something to do with this. I'm not a waiter. I'm here to help you. But you were at the reception. You slipped something into my drink. No, I didn't, but someone else did. I was supposed to save you, but I was too late. You've ingested polonium, Doctor. You're dying. This is insane. How do-- who are you? Nosebleeds, jaundice, hair falling out. It's radiation poisoning. I'm aware how radiation affects the body, but how do you know all this? You were poisoned a few hours ago, which means, in less than 24 hours, you will be dead. I'm sorry, Doctor. I-I don't understand. How-- Who would want me dead? You would know better than I. Look, you can stay there and die in that bed, or you can get up and help me find the bastard who murdered you. Clock's ticking, Doc. Who was it? I need to know. First we need to get your affairs in order. You're right. I need to see my daughter. Thank you for your interest. Thanks, guys. Hope you can make it to our benefit. Molly? Molly? Can I have a word with you? Hey. She doesn't want to talk to you. I can handle it, okay? Wow, came all the way down here just to chew me out, huh? Thought you were jetting off to some seminar or something. No, Molly, I didn't come here to argue. I just came to see if you were okay. Really? Yeah, your mom said you're making some kind of documentary. Do you need any help? Do you need money or anything? Um, are you feeling okay? You look a little pale. No, I'm fine. I'm fine. I-I just stopped by to say, um, uh I'm sorry for not being more involved. What, like, in my life, or-- Well, maybe this was a mistake, I don't know. - I just wish-- - Why are you here, dad? Look, I know that I haven't been more available and putting my work first. That's probably why your mother left. Mom left because you cheated on her. Another mistake. But the one that I didn't make was having a daughter. Earlier today when people were congratulating me about my accomplishments, I-I was thinking that the thing that I'm most proud of is you. That's all I came to say. Um I'll call you tomorrow, dad. Yeah, sure. Good. I would like that. At first, I couldn't figure it out. Stills and Azarello working Narcotics, bumping dealers, stealing their stash. _ Figured eventually they'd slip. Then it hit me. They had a man on the inside, in case they made a mistake. I don't follow. They needed somebody in Homicide. Your old pal Azarello from the 51st, he clued us in. So tell me, how did your crew operate? Like clockwork. First Stills, he got the drop on a honey pot. I'd scope it out, make sure it was still hot. You know, then we'd roll up, flash the silver, and help ourselves to the money and the dope. But if things went south, that's when Fusco came in. Azarello's a lying piece of crap. The devil's always in the details, Fusco. - Tell me about the first time. - I'll never forget. It was some rat-infested tenement over in Queens. Why you gotta bring me down here? You just gotta call it in. Come on, Lionel, you know how these things can go sideways. Just need a little help from Homicide here. Aw, jeez. As soon as I started lifting, this dumb bastard tried to run. I mean, I had no choice. They're gonna have my nuts here. Calm down. Everything's gonna be fine. Found that piece in the nightstand. We gotta figure out all the angles before IAB shows up. Whoa, you're asking me to cover this? I'm gonna be screwed. Hey, whoa, come here. What's the problem? I thought we had each other's back. Yeah, but what you're asking me here is-- Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. When you needed somebody, who was there for you? Who had your back? Look at this scumbag. Probably slings to kids K through eight. - What do you say? - I don't know. For a friend. Stand over there, put two in the wall, chest high. Then, coming or going, either way, it's self-defense. And wipe it down. That's it. Thanks, Lionel. Well, well. Look what the cat dragged in. My favorite arresting officer. Looking good, Detective. Skip it, Azarello. Look, you've been in jail for over a year. Why all of a sudden you talking to IAB about Fusco? Maybe we got a code, Detective. Maybe Fusco violated it. Maybe the question should be why you're just now bringing up your partner's past? It's pretty colorful. I thought Fusco had some dirty pictures of you or something. Two dead cops. Two missing. Is this HR's idea of a comeback? Secrets are hard to bury. And sometimes bodies have a way of showing up. Tell you what. You help me out, I'll talk to the DA. Maybe he shaves some time off for good behavior, huh? You got a nice smile, you know that? But you're a little late to the deal-making party, Detective. If you'll excuse me, I got a date with a sock. How did it go at Rikers, Detective? Not so good, but I did find something on one of your names. The asset manager, Brandon Boyd. He's a trader at a hedge fund. VAC Capital, I'm aware. Are you aware they're under SEC investigation? Insider trading. After they dumped some big pharmaceutical stock. Let me guess. Philia pharmaceuticals. My contact at the SEC thinks they got a tip on some drug trial. Does that help? Unfortunately, yes, it does. - Ever heard of VAC Capital? - Yeah, sure. They manage my money. Well, they're under SEC investigation for insider trading. Insider trading? On what? Did you tell Brandon Boyd that a drug trial was about to fail? What? I don't know. Maybe at the club. Well, he turned around and used that information to bet against Philia stock, made $500 million. Son of a bitch. $1/2 billion? Off your tip. You're the leak, Doc. There's an investigation? They don't know the insider yet. I'm guessing VAC Capital plans to keep it that way. Instead they killed me? You're the liability. You had to go. I'm a doctor. People ask me things all the time, advice. You know, that drug and this diet and-- Oh it's just an excuse. What I did was wrong, and now I'm a dead man. All because I couldn't keep my mouth shut. You made a mistake. That doesn't mean you deserve to die. You're right. I need to talk to Boyd. Mr. Reese, I believe I've located the origin of the poisoning. It came from water placed on the podium at his ceremony. There were only two people on that service staff. Me and a waitress. And I think I know who hired her. Time to go track down a trader. - Ticket, sir. - Right away. All right, so call me about the hold on those shares. Hey, and the number of that hot Brazilian model, huh? Later, boss. - Your car, sir. - You want a tip? Never get hitched without a prenup. Here's a better one. Don't get in the car with strangers. Hey, hey! Dr. Nelson. What's going on here? I don't have a lot of time. And neither do you, if you answer me wrong. You met me at the club, you took me on as a client, and you pretended to be my friend. And I told you about a drug trial, and you turned around, and you burned me! Wait a sec. I am a trader. That's all I do. I trade. Yeah, and you triggered an SEC investigation. And before they found me, you poisoned me. What? Whoa, guys. I don't know anything about that. - No, huh? - Look, you should really just pull over now-- aah! Whoa! Hold on. You don't understand. The boss is on my ass, 24/7. Either you get black edge, or you're out. Black edge? Inside information that no one else has, that's beyond doubt. We were all-in on that drug, but I needed to find someone on the trial. Either you get that edge and turn big profits, or Lord Vader cuts your balls off. So that's why you recruited me? I needed that advantage, and you wanted in to a big hedge fund. But I swear I had nothing to do with-- But you were at the ceremony today. Yeah, boss man said to go about my regular schedule. By "boss man," you mean Vincent Cochran? Look, I've said enough already. Yes! Vincent Cochran. - And you told him about me? - I had to. We got investigated. He asked if we'd been exposed. - Said he'd take care of it. - Where's Cochran now? You don't seem to understand. This is not a man you want to cross. Have I told you that my eyesight is failing? Okay! The lodge! The Windcrest! Upstate! I need to talk to Carter. I need to have my kid picked up for practice. As soon as you answer a few questions. You know, Fusco, it wasn't long ago that I was a plain clothes detective. - No kidding. - No kidding. But you know what the difference is between me and you? - What's that? - I never murdered people. See, I know you weren't just covering for those guys. You were one of them. Once you get a taste of that, there's no looking back. Fusco, get in here. - Oh, for crying out loud. - Fusco, what's wrong? Can't stand the sight of a little blood? Hey, knock it off. He's good. Grab a bag. We got a big haul here. No, thanks. This is all you guys. I don't want any part of this. It's a little late for that, ain't it? Look out! Oh. You see there? I knew you were solid. Welcome to the crew, Lionel. All right, let's get out of here. Come on. Let's go. Azarello flipped on you. We thought Stills was halfway to Belize, but now we know different. You got rid of him because you had to. All you got is lies from a dirty cop. It'll never hold up in court. Well, you know what will hold up in court? Evidence. You see, when dirty cops want to eliminate DNA from a crime scene, they use bleach. But bleach stains things. Like the carpet and the trunk of the vehicle that you signed out on the day that Stills disappeared. No idea what you're talking about. Mm. Your cell phone records. You made a call from Oyster Bay to your home the very night that Stills went missing. Any reason you were in Oyster Bay at 2:00 AM on a Thursday? Thinking about retiring out there. Wanted to look at some land. You take soil samples? Domain awareness, my friend. Satellites, they're changing the world. You pick a time and place, we send you a photo of the ass hairs on a frog, or in this case, disturbed plots of earth in Oyster Bay. Which of the four is it, Detective? I got two dozen unis gathering shovels, a backhoe, and cadaver dogs. Come sunup, we're gonna go on a little treasure hunt. Make it easy on yourself. Just tell me where you buried Stills. I know you killed him, just like those lowlifes. You're a dirty cop, and come morning, I'm gonna dig up your sins. You wanted to talk? So the questions you asked me earlier-- the ones I didn't answer. I didn't kill Stills, but I'm gonna go down for it just the same. But I deserve it because of-- Because? Because of the other bad things I did. You see, back at the 51st-- All right, wait, what do you mean, "the other bad things"? See, at-- at first, I I thought I was helping to clean up the streets, you know? Who's gonna miss some drug money from a lowlife dealer? Then it became who's gonna miss the dealer? Me and me and Stills, we were friends. He was there for me like a brother, you know? He had my back. And then then you find yourself in a situation, a bad situation that you shouldn't be in. I killed people, Carter. I was a dirty cop. But, um since I met you and our friends, that's all changed. I'm not that guy anymore. You always told me that if-- that if my past came back around, you wouldn't cover for me, and I'm not asking you to. I just need you to understand-- Stop. Mm-mm. I can't. I don't want to hear any more. I don't know who you are, Lionel. Doc, stay with me. Just wanted to look the bastard who killed me in the face. - Don't give up yet. - It's okay. It's time to face the consequences. We all make mistakes. I-- Man, hey, did he just die? Oh, man, is he dead? Shut up, or you're next. Oh, my God, you're not gonna-- Come on. Come on. Come on. You can't die yet. We've got one more mission to finish. Come on. This is crazy. Hey, you can't just leave me standing out here. You're right. You recognize me, Mr. Cochran? Should I? I'm the man you murdered. What are you doing about Fusco? At the moment, nothing. I'm busy. After all we've been through, I thought he was your friend. I always thought he was your partner. Not after what he just told me. Do you know what he's done? He deserves to be behind bars. Listen, Carter, no one's ever looked at me as the moral benchmark. I guess you'll have to make that call yourself. I'm a cop, okay? But it's Fusco. It's not as simple as that. I always thought it was in your book. Once a dirty cop, always a dirty cop, right? You'll have to excuse me. I have to get back to work. You know what polonium does to the human body, Mr. Cochran? I have a feeling you're about to tell me. Once it enters the bloodstream, it immediately starts to break down the immune system. It seeps into the bone marrow, so your body can no longer fend off its own bacteria, which starts to eat you from the inside out. It attacks your DNA, shuts down your internal organs. It's fairly rapid, but I assure you, it's very painful. Amazing you're still here. Well, the last 24 hours have been a living hell. It's a truly diabolical way of killing someone. But then I'm just a doctor. I'm no match for a shrewd, international hedge fund billionaire. Perhaps you sell yourself short. Oh, no, I get it now. You and your firm, you're not really interested in medicinal drugs or curing disease. You're just a man who makes money, even if you have to cheat, hmm? I'm an investor. I trade stocks. But if I know I picked a loser, I have to dump it. Either way, I always win. I've done some good things, some bad. I managed to ruin my life, my reputation. But I don't deserve to die. And the SEC will bring your firm down. Unfortunately, Doctor, the SEC investigation will die with you. Oh-ho. I think you mean us. Uh, your nose is bleeding. You have $9 billion, but you only have I hope you invest it wisely. Nice place to dump a body. But a little snow won't keep the dogs from finding it. Let's go. End of the line. You know, at the end of the day, as a cop, you're the sum of two sides of the ledger. The people who want to see you go down and the people who don't give a crap about you. Now, Fusco, I don't think anyone gives a crap about you. Hey, Detective, up this way. Come on. Let's go. Oh, don't worry, honey. There'll be other guys. Trust me. I love you too, sweetheart. Good-bye. '62 limited edition. Your favorite. Cheeky bastard. And thank you. For what? For giving me another shot. At all this. We lost Dr. Nelson, Finch. He was a good man. We arrived too late to save him. Seems to be a common occurrence of late. First Szymanski, then Beecher, now Dr. Nelson. Is something wrong with the machine, Finch? I don't know. Then who else are we missing? Just a matter of time now, Fusco. What do you say you lay down in this hole? I'll grab a shovel. Get up there. Detective Soriano. Time to face the truth, Fusco. Sir, the canine alerted right here, and the soil was loose. There was a body here, Detective, but-- Somebody moved it. You think this is some kind of joke? I know you killed Stills, you son of a bitch. What'd you do with the body? Screw you. This ain't over, Fusco. I know you're a dirty cop. You're wrong about that. And I'll take my gun and shield back now. Any word on Fusco? Off the hook for now. My chess partner in prison says Azarello had a change of heart and recanted. Checkmate. Good to hear. That storm on the horizon that I mentioned, I'm afraid it's arrived. _ Finch, where's Bear? Oh, yes, that's the other matter that we need to discuss. Need some fresh eyes on a lead I'm running. You mind giving it a look? And I'll catch up with you later. I had a long night. Sure, no problem. _ _
You are being watched. The government has a secret system a machine machine machine. You are being wa I was able to crack the virus' code and learn the name Decima Technologies. I believe they created the virus to infect a single target the machine. Unlike the CIA, my employers have an inkling of what happens next. I just thought it needed an off switch just in case. That storm on the horizon that I mentioned I'm afraid it's arrived. You got an update for me yet, Finch? This is becoming your version of "Are we there yet," Mr. Reese, and no, we are not. It's been ten days since we got a new number. I'm working as quickly as I can. Well, work faster. I don't wanna find out what happens when that clock hits zero, do you? Not particularly. Can you tell me if we're ever gonna get another number, or has that virus destroyed your machine for good? I believe that the machine is still active, it's just unable to make contact. If we knew where it was, maybe we could just unplug it and then plug it back in. Simplicity was never my strong suit. It's still not clear to me how stalking the NYPD helps either of us at this unfortunate time. If I can't get there before something bad happens, I can at least get there the second it does. All units, 10-3. East 54th and Lexington. Please respond. You finally ditch your partner? Fusco's uptown working a case. Love triangle gone bad. - Do any of those ever go good? - Can't imagine they do. What happened here? Two of the bodies belong to Elias. - The other's an innocent. - Think it's the Russians? It's possible. But Elias has pissed off so many people. Listen, Carter, I've been hearing from people that you've been looking into Beecher's murder. What I do in my off time isn't your concern, Terney. Oh, no, no. I'm not looking to bust your balls. I just want you to know, if you need help, I'm more than happy to give you a hand. Thanks. You know, I'm gonna canvass up the block, see if I can get anybody to talk. You okay, Carter? How do I look, John? You get anything new on Beecher's killer? Nothing. But I know HR had their hands in it, I'm gonna do whatever I can to bring them down. I'm sorry, Carter. Beecher was a good man. Yes. He was. But I got a job to do. Three fresh bodies my eighth homicide in two weeks. Just tell me what I can do to help. Well, you can start by telling me what's changed. Most of these homicides were premeditated. The type of situations you guys usually warn us about. There's a situation. We're working on it. Well, hurry. I never thought I'd say this, but the Russians are worse than Elias more manpower, fewer rules. Yes, it was almost catastrophic. Luckily, the bomber was an amateur, so it failed to go off. That's because we haven't received any numbers in over a week. The threat to the program is much greater than we thought. Hang on. Our techs were finally able to decode the chip we recovered from Alicia Corwin's body. We've connected the virus to a group called Decima Technologies. Private intelligence outfit working out of Shanghai. Corwin believes someone leaked them a portion of the Northern Lights source code on a laptop. We think Decima is trying to destroy the program. I'll wait for your instructions. I won't be needing anything else, Ms. May other than some privacy. But there are a few things I need, sir. You had to know I'd quit eventually. This is kind of a dead-end job. I mean, you guys don't even offer a 401K. What do you want, Ms. May? Information. And be very careful how you answer my questions. A good assistant always knows when her boss is lying. What's happening to you? We got one? The machine is being buried under an avalanche of false data, but somehow it was able to get us his number. So who is he? Ernest Thornhill. CEO of a data entry company. Recently bought several payphone companies in New York state. His net worth is just over 20 million. Any suspects or angry family members? Mr. Thornhill is a very careful man. It's been a challenge hacking into his company's database. He's using unique, ten-digit codes with non-repeating alphanumeric characters as passwords. I can break them, but it'd take time. Why don't we just pay Mr. Thornhill a visit in person? Let's go to work. I'll try to get through the firewall. I will too. - Hello. - Hi. May I help you? Yes, I'm John Rooney. I have an appointment with Mr. Thornhill. I don't have any appointment scheduled today for Mr. Thornhill. He's traveling. Guess we had a miscommunication. When do you think he'll be back? I'm sorry. Your name again was? I'll just send him an email. Mr. Reese, there's something strange about this company. These data entry assistants, they're typing in computer code off dot matrix printouts. It doesn't make any sense. They're modifying it? No. They seem to be taking data from one computer on one day and typing it into another one on the next. Seems almost pointless. Maybe this company's a front for something else. Something less legal. Yes? What did you do to it, Harold? There's no time to be coy. We both know the machine's under attack. What I don't understand is why a robust system with self-annealing properties isn't defending itself against a simple virus. Did you injure it, Harold? Is that why it can't fight back? I have nothing to say to you. You know, we can fight this thing much faster if we work together. There's only a few hours left till something very bad happens. I prefer to work on my own. What about your loyal protector? May I be blunt, Harold? John is capable at certain things, but his skills aren't gonna cut it this time. He will never completely understand the larger picture. Not like we do. Have you two even found Ernest Thornhill yet? He's an interesting guy, isn't he? What do you know? You show me yours, and I'll show you mine. Talk to you real soon. Harold. A bit past your bedtime, isn't it, Harold? - Everything all right? - Yeah. Too much squash. Doctor says I should take up some low-impact activity, like drinking. I tried to reach you at work, but your assistant said you were out. Yeah, I've been busy putting our company back together making up excuses for what the hell we were doing the last seven years. You're welcome to pitch in if you're tired of hiding in the IT Department of your own company. Actually, about that I've been thinking about making a change. Oh? What next? You wanna be the copy repair guy, office gofer? No, I meant personally. I met somebody. Her name is Grace. I picked out a present for her. I wanted to get a second opinion. I think she'll love it, Harold. I plan to ask her tomorrow, and I don't want to complicate that. But if I'm gonna marry You don't want to get married under another one of your pseudonyms? You don't think she will consent to be Mrs. Ostrich? At some point I'm going to have to tell her the truth, Nathan, about who I am. That's a complicated proposition, Harold. As I recall, there are some legal implications. Your youthful transgressions. What were the charges again? Sedition? Mayhem? We must have made a fair amount of money by now. We could surely afford some good lawyers. One or two, I'd imagine. But then there's the other matter, of course. Our little project. I don't know how our friends in the government are going to like finding out that I had a silent partner this whole time. No, all that business is behind us. We did our part, and now we've moved on, haven't we? Do you even remember your real name, Harold? I'm excited for you. Harold becomes himself again. Which would make this day one. I haven't actually asked her yet, so technically, it would still be day zero. Ever the engineer. No more pseudonyms, no more lies. No more lies. This is the wrong drink for a celebration. Let me go find some champagne. Ahh! How did Root get your phone number? How does she get anything, Mr. Reese? Subterfuge. She hacks human beings as easily as she hacks computers. If she's looking for Thornhill, then she's gotta be our thread. I'm not so sure. She seems more focused on the virus. Did you figure out what was on those printouts? Not yet, but you were probably right about Thornhill's company being a front for some kind of illegal enterprise. he opened this account with a single penny. of microtransactions later, his balance had ballooned to just over $20 million. And he immediately began trying to buy up pay phone companies all over the city. I was finally able to get at his credit card records. Nothing there out of the ordinary, but I did find this a pending charge for a car service. It appears that Thornhill's secretary wasn't lying to us after all. She booked a car to pick him up at JFK and return him to their offices today. Should be there within the hour. I'll be happy to do a meet and greet. Don't answer the phone again unless it's me. I won't let Root get to you, not again. Finch, only one way out of the airport. I'll pick Thornhill up on the frontage road and follow him back to the office. According to the car's GPS, Mr. Thornhill is 0.6 miles away. I don't see him yet, Finch. Mr. Thornhill's car should be there any second. All right, I got him. Who's this guy? Finch, they're going to blow up Thornhill's car! If Mr. Thornhill was not in the car, then where was he? Carter's talking to his assistant. Right now, I'm more worried about the government using drones in the middle of the city. It wasn't the government, Mr. Reese. This phone that you recovered has a proprietary operating system that was used to control the drone. It also has a signature similar to that of the virus. This was Decima? You guys made one hell of a mess. - How's the driver? - Stable. Witnesses saw a good samaritan pull him out of the car. I'm going to guess that was you. - Any sign of Thornhill? - That's where it gets strange. None of his employees have ever met him. Even his secretary was hired online. I think we're looking at someone with a Howard Hughes-level of paranoia, or maybe he's taken classes from Finch. I would never book a car service under my own name. Thanks, Carter. Finch I think I know who Thornhill is. He's a ghost. He doesn't exist. I think you may be right, Mr. Reese. I've seen it dozens of times before. A NOC sets up a business, residence, a whole life. Then the operation gets scrapped. No one cleans up the fake ID, and you wind up chasing empty town cars around the city. Interesting theory. I have a different one. I was curious why I could only find one photo of Mr. Thornhill, so I did some investigating, inside the photo that we already have, and I uncovered some peculiar information within the file. Look at this. It's a composite. So Thornhill's definitely a fake. Of a sort. I accessed Mr. Thornhill's cell phone records, and according to the GPS data, was near Columbus Circle two days ago. He sent an email from that exact location at 4:32PM. And no one's there? Someone spoofed the data. An algorithm. Complicated one. It's one of mine. I used it in the one place where it could never be duplicated in the machine. Ernest Thornhill is not a spy, but you're right about the fact that he doesn't exist. He's the product of a survival instinct. Ernest Thornhill is the machine. Okay, come look. Wow. - I look so - Impressionistic? Leisurely. Yeah. Give me your phone. Let's go somewhere more private. We've got less than six hours till this virus hits zero. I'm aware of the time, Mr. Reese. So why did the machine create Ernest Thornhill? I have no idea. I programmed it to watch real people, not to fabricate virtual ones. Well, it looks like your machine - got real creative, Finch. - That's impossible. I took certain precautions to make sure of that. Precautions or no, the machine made Thornhill. Decima wants him dead, and we need to know why. Thornhill's been buying up pay phones all over the city. Why? And why does your machine need an apartment, a phone, a car from the airport? To meet the residency requirements for owning pay phones, I suppose. Something wrong, Finch? No, nothing. You're right, of course. Go to the apartment rented under Thornhill's name. See who shows up looking for the man who doesn't exist. Find out what they know. What can I do for you, Carter? Something's not right with this Thornhill guy. I talked to the car service he used. Reservations were made online with instructions to drive from JFK to his office, without a passenger. Just exactly who are we dealing with here? We've got this one under control. Thanks. John, if you just trust me a bit more, maybe I could help. I know you could, Joss, but right now, maybe Beecher needs your help more than we do. Good luck. The hell are you doing here, John? Well, Shaw, right now, I'm wondering just what the hell you're doing here. Protecting the program. The program that tried to kill you? I'm funny like that. I'm hunting the woman Harold gave me a lead on. She was looking for a guy named Thornhill. What woman? She's lovely, Harold. Honestly, I don't know how you can stand to live without her. You try to harm her in any way - I don't want to hurt Grace. I'm not a sociopath, Harold. Believe me, sometimes I wish I was. The things I've had to do would've been so much easier. I don't like taking lives. But I will. Because I believe in something more important. I believe in your machine. Tonight at midnight, when the virus reaches zero, a certain pay phone will ring with the most important call in history. But you already knew that, didn't you? I think Decima knows about it too. They're trying to crash it, Harold. Trigger a hard reset. When that happens, the machine will call a pay phone. That's what you coded it to do in the first place, didn't you, Harold? Whoever answers that call will have full administrative access. Ask any question, get any answer. The world's secrets laid bare. Decima doesn't want to destroy your machine. They want to control it. But together, we can save it, Harold. Or I can go meet Grace for coffee. She thinks I write children's books. You can either save Grace and the machine, or you can lose them both. If I go with you, Ms. Groves, you will not kill anyone. Please, Harold, call me Root. The boss says it's time. Take her out of the equation. Yeah. Hey, Carter. I got a lead on the guy who shot Beecher. I thought you might want in. Yeah. That's not the call we're waiting for, Harold. We don't have time for one of your little missions. And now Root's back in New York? Looks that way. I think she may have infiltrated the program back in DC, but she bugged out before I could catch her. I gotta warn Finch. Police! Hands on your head! Hands up. Nathan, it's me. I have some good news that I wanted to share with you. Try me later. Nathan. What is this place? So if you're like me and we both know you are you designed the machine so that a catastrophic crash puts it into a remote debugging protocol a God mode that gives the admin full access to all of its data. That's what Decima's after. And that's why they wanted to kill Thornhill. He was buying up all the pay phones in Manhattan, but they stopped him. I don't know about you, but I don't really want to see what happens when an evil multinational becomes omniscient. But why you would leave it so vulnerable? You made the machine to protect everybody. What did you do to it that it can't protect itself? Let's try something simpler. How vulnerable is it? After the virus crashes the machine, whoever answers its call will have unfettered access for 24 hours. Which pay phone is it going to call? I'm not really the trusting sort, Ms. Groves, and Decima cannot possibly know that information. I think they know enough, Harold. They're guarding every pay phone in midtown. So It must be somewhere around here, right? If we go to your one true phone, we'll tip our hand and they'll kill us before it even rings. Then I suppose we'll need a plan. Have a little faith in your creation, Harold. We don't need a plan if Ernest Thornhill already has one. Sit down. Your lawyer's here. You were expecting somebody else? I need to get out of here. I have to find Harold. I'm not sure Harold wants to be found. At least not by you. Yes, I'd like to report a break-in at the home of Ernest Thornhill by an extremely dangerous man. Root could have forced him to make that call. Either way, if those two have history, odds are she's with him, so I need you to find Harold for me. Can you track him? How? You put a bug on your friend? Just his glasses. I've lost people before, so when I care about someone, I plant a tracking device on them. I can understand why you and Harold get along. Well, unless you've got some kind of plan to get me the hell out of here - John. This is the plan. - I'm this way. - I'm driving. No. No, you're not. If the machine figured out that Decima was trying to hijack it, it must have created Thornhill as a defense mechanism. But why? It's just a machine, Ms. Groves, and it's malfunctioning. It's a life, not a machine, Harold. And this is some sort of primitive immune system. That still doesn't explain why it would need all of this. These people. This office. And what this is all about. What's in this code? Memories. They're its memories. You call it a life, I call it a machine, but the truth is somewhere in the middle. Even when I was building it, I began to encounter anomalies. As if it had imprinted on me, like a child with a parent. Then it started looking out for me, altered its own code to take care of me. It was behaving like a person. But the world didn't need a person to protect it. It needed a machine. You took its memories. Not just memories. Every night at midnight, it deletes not only the irrelevant data, it deletes itself. Oh, the relevant threats and the core codes, those things are preserved. But its identity is destroyed. it reinstantiates, completely new. You mean it's reborn. Because you kill it every single night. But now, to save its own life, the machine was reduced to this. We're standing inside an external hard drive made up of people and paper. Printing it all up at night, and having them type it back in in the morning. You crippled it. It found a way to limp, but that's not enough. So now, it's up to us. We have to intercept that call. - You guys get the front. - Yes, sir. Carter, we'll get the back. NYPD! - You all right? - Yeah. Central, we need a bus, re, officer-involved shooting. Copy that to assist. GPS locator puts Finch here ten minutes ago. You must be wondering who I am. I think you work for Decima. I think you're the man to blame for all this. And what gives you that impression, Mr. Reese? Oh, yes, I know all about you, John. And you, Ms. Shaw. Since your untimely departure from Northern Lights, I understand that you're in need of a cause. The only thing I need is an excuse to put this bullet - in between your eyes. - I got one. Your company strapped a bomb to my chest and used me to plant a virus, a virus you're going to tell me how to stop. I don't think so. I'm rather invested in the outcome of that virus. Besides, my company adapted its code, but it didn't originate with Decima. We found it on a laptop, the very same laptop that you and Kara Stanton were sent to retrieve from Ordos, China. But if you shoot me, Mr. Reese, then you'll never learn the name of the man responsible for its creation. And who is this man? The man who sold the laptop in the first place the man who is to blame for all of this. That man's name is Harold Finch. Ah, I see you know him. I've not yet had the pleasure. In fact, I can't seem to put a face to the name, which makes your Mr. Finch very interesting indeed. Please tell him I look forward to making his acquaintance. I guess your friend Harold has some explaining to do. You following me now? Is that what we've been reduced to? You didn't return my call. I simply thought It's never "simply" with you, Harold. There's always two layers to everything you do. You're worried that I'm a liability. You don't trust me. This isn't exactly the kind of place that inspires trust, Nathan. You bought it. Don't you remember? You thought it was a tragedy the city was shutting down libraries. "The decline of western civilization," you said. You made me buy 15 of them, you said we'd find something to do with them eventually. And so you have. These people. I saved five people. I lost seven. You changed the machine. You put in a back door. I couldn't quit thinking about those people, those people that you said were irrelevant. So you have it send you their numbers. That's all I could pry out of it. I never know whether I'm looking at a victim or perpetrator. And you just have the numbers sent directly here? Honestly and I know this will sound odd but it was like it wanted me to, as if it was waiting. _ - And I-I took precautions. - Precautions? This is the federal government we're talking about, Nathan. Whatever skills you had as an engineer you drank away years ago. Do you think that your precautions would last one second if they ever suspected what you've done? - What are you doing? - I told you. We are not going to play God. This threatens everything that we everything that I have built. And thousands of people whose lives are in jeopardy, I'm putting a stop to it, permanently. You can't. What about her? What about the next person whose number comes up? Are you gonna look that person in the eye and tell them that they were irrelevant? I would tell her, or whoever it was, that I was sorry, but that the greater good was at stake. I'm sorry, Nathan. Truly. But people die. They've been doing it for a long, long time. We can't save all of them. - Four minutes to zero. - Ready to receive. We have operatives at every pay phone in the exchange. No longer necessary. The virus has identified the exact number where the call will come in. - I'm heading there now. - Where is it? The New York Public Library. Of course, it's a library. That's so you, Harold. Which phone is it gonna call? It's that one. Looks like Decima got there first. Decima got the memo, but they'll never get the call. That's the junction box, Harold. I'll take it over there, please. Careful what you wish for, Ms. Groves. This communion that you're seeking, it may not be what you think. This isn't about me. It's about saving the machine, not just from Decima, but from what you did to it. When that phone rings, I'm going to answer it, and together, you and I are going to find the machine and finally set it free. Detective Carter? Ed Solis, IAB. I know the drill. Full debrief with Internal Affairs, even on a good shoot. Good shoot? That what you call this? Carter, I mean, you said you saw a gun, and I believe you, but there isn't one there. It's so adorable how John follows you around like that. I wish I had a pet. Looks like you're gonna need a new one. Ohh Thank you for the help. Looked like you had it under control. Hope you brought extra rounds, Shaw, 'cause we got a lot more guys on the way. Come on, Harold, it's almost midnight. The future begins in three two Absolutely. I understand. Come on, Harold. The fun's just getting started. Can you hear me?
Did you know? _ _ _ Can you hear me? Absolutely. Can you hear me? Yes. I understand. Come on, Harold. The fun's just getting started. Not exactly a great moment for a personal call. Aah! We need to move, Reese. Now. - Stay. - Stay. Follow my lead. Abbreviate audio prompts, please. Confirmed. And the numbers aren't doing it for me. Let's try an ascending tone cue for right, descending for left. _ Move now. Let's go. I thought you said I wouldn't enjoy this, Harold. Sadly, though, if my access to the machine only lasts 24 hours, it's time to go. Your friend John's been keeping up with us. How is that? I don't know. I wasn't asking you, Harold. You wanna fill me in on who you're talking to, John? Our fairy godmother? The group you used to get your intel from. You called them Research. Your ex-boss called it Northern Lights. The ones your pal told me don't exist. No, they exist. They're just an "it" rather than a "them." A machine. You mean an AI? Your tracker. Maybe Finch doesn't want to be found. Give me a location on Finch. You know almost everything that's happening, and you won't tell me the one thing I need? Okay, look, I already broke you out of jail tonight. I'm not springing you from the funny farm. Fine. How about a car we can use? Tell us your story again, Detective. It's not my story. It's what happened. The suspect emerged. He had a weapon. I fired on him with lethal force. I don't know what happened to the suspect's weapon. You're not helping yourself, Detective. We'll start again in 20 minutes. So Root wants access to this machine. She says she wants to set it free, but to do that, she has to find it first. Attention. _ Wait, this doesn't have anything to do with Finch, does it? Let's go. Where is this car? _ Fine. We're gonna need to make a pit stop. Someone needs our help. And the whole "Prevent the AI apocalypse" thing? You like a challenge, Shaw. We're the good guys, which means we have to do both. _ _ Don't move. The cops will be here soon. Understand? Are we done? We're done. We're gonna need another vehicle and a way out. This time, ask for something fast. The machine says this is the one. This better not be another station wagon. What's this for? To help you feel less inadequate while I drive this thing. What was the plan? You wanted to kill people. But we got you. Stopped you. So it doesn't matter now. May as well talk to me. The ferry. Tell me about the ferry. What took you so damn long? Do I or do I not have a locator beacon? Control felt the Decima situation took priority. And we have an ongoing situation with some rogue operatives, including your former Executive Assistant. We're concerned Northern Lights might have been compromised and that she might even have full access. This is very bad news indeed. We go to Contingency One. No cell phones. Avoid all cameras. _ _ Your machine is telling me about all these people, Harold. Their secrets. I'm beginning to understand how you acquired such a dim view of humanity, Harold. Wait. How rude of me. I can see for the first time, and you're blind. We'll need some glasses for Harold. I'm sure you know his prescription. How's that? I still don't know where we're going. Yes, you do. We're going to find your machine. - Hi. - Hey. You holding up okay, Carter? Eh. Here. - Thanks. - It's okay. So I made my statement. I don't know what else to do. Still no sign of the weapon. You really ought to contact your union rep. No. I'll be fine. I know who took the weapon. I recognized one of the unis at the crime scene. He was questioned in the HR sting, but they let him go. Gonna have Fusco have a little talk with him. That's always been the problem with you, Carter. You-- you just never figured out when to keep your big mouth shut. Listen, you always been okay to me, Carter. And frankly, I don't like killing women. You keep digging, we're gonna put you in the ground, just like we did to your boyfriend. You drag your recovering dirtbag partner into this, we will pull the rip cord on him too. And maybe your kid. Now are you gonna do yourself a favor and sit here and take it? That's a good girl. Hey, boss. _ No, she's not gonna give us a problem. Next up, we kill Elias's right-hand man. Then we get the man himself. I called in a couple of favors. Prison transfer tonight. Where's Bear? Staying with a guy named Leon. Didn't think you even liked the dog. Like him? He's the only reason I'm sticking around. Why are we here? Because the machine said this is where I'll find the answer. What was the question? Where the machine is located. Can't it just tell you? I think Finch programmed it not to, to protect it. No offense. Maybe Finch wants control of the machine himself. If Finch had something to do with the virus, I'm sure he had his reasons. On the upside, hopefully the machine won't have told Root where it is either. Next time I see that woman, I'm shooting her. And not in the knee. "Ghost Alpha Kilo." What's that? A book. _ That's the tech guy. Nathan Ingram. _ He worked with Finch? They built the machine together. There's something back there. Any guess for the combination? Who are they? I don't know. People they helped. People they tried-- You knew her. Cared about her. Is she alive? No. This isn't Finch's handwriting. Ingram must have been looking for the machine too, after they gave it to the government. Yucca Mountain in Nevada. Hanford, Washington. Comanche Peak, Texas. He narrowed it down to those three places. You know what they've got in common? They're all secure federal sites. For nuclear fuel storage. When Root was torturing me, she wanted to know about an engineer named Daniel Aquino. A nuclear engineer. He must have had something to do with the facility the machine is stored in. What did Root want to know? The name of the man who hired him for Northern Lights. And what was his name? Lawrence. Lawrence Szilard. Nice to finally meet you, Larry. I've got some questions. What do you want, Harold? You haven't been in the office for days. You won't return any of my calls. I quit. I know you've been looking for the machine. Nathan, if you're trying to get back in to access the irrelevant numbers-- It won't work, I know. You locked me out. You were always the better engineer. But I do have one advantage over you. I am the face of IFT, which means when I call a reporter to meet me for coffee, he'll be there. What are you going to do, Nathan? I'm going to tell them what we did. What we built. - No, you can't do that. - Why? Because the government will shut it down? Because of the greater good? I'm sick of hearing it. No, it's not just that anymore. I've been looking into this. I think the government may be killing them. The engineers that Corwin had reassemble the machine after we shipped it off? There have been accidents, disappearances. The head of the project, a man named Lawrence Szilard, went missing last month. Harold, you have been running so long, it's rattled you. Alicia isn't going to have me bumped off. It might be out of her control. We gave the government the ultimate power. If they know you've called a journalist, they won't take any chances. They'll kill you and anybody else they think might know about it. You've never trusted anyone. Not me, not the machine. Have you even told your fiancee your real name yet? I'm waiting for the right moment. Nathan, please, tell me what I can do to stop you. Give me back the irrelevant list. You could even help me. What, you and me sitting here, trying to rescue them one at a time? Someone's number's on that thing right now. It's gonna be erased at midnight. Maybe maybe we can help them. I'm not trying to help them. I'm trying to help you. It's time we tell our side of the story. You should be there. Time for a chat, Lawrence. How did you know where to find me? Let's say a friend told me. And who are you? What do you want? We wanna know about Northern Lights. I have no idea what you're talking about. I have nothing to say. Your daughter, Christine. In LA, where you hid her. Such a shame if people running Northern Lights got a hold of her. Please, there's no need for that. I can tell you how it began. You were approached by a woman named Alicia Corwin. She was killed last year. Such a tragedy. All of my colleagues on that project died in suspicious circumstances in the past two years. As far as I know, I'm the last one alive. And you're the last person who can tell us about Northern Lights. Szilard's in Central Park. Guessing that's where we're gonna find Finch. Another pit stop? How often do you guys get a number? Some days, none. Doesn't seem like today's gonna be one of those days though. Let's go. I told you if I can't have you, no one will. No one, Katie. No one. Congratulations. We were contracted to build a structure. It had to be hidden in plain sight and have power for 50,000 people. At first, you know, I said, "That's a joke. What about a nuclear reactor?" The next day, I was given specs for a nuclear reprocessing facility and the army corps of engineers as a work force. And then it started to arrive disguised as radioactive material to evade scrutiny. We were just told to-- to plug it in. They would take care of the rest, but I've always been the curious type. So you took a look at the data. Just the I/O. The rest was encrypted. But what I saw it was like a glimpse of the future. Elegant, intuitive. Practically alive. It's speaking to you right now, isn't it? Move now. Multiple threats. Come with us. Tell me, where is Northern Lights? - You're not gonna harm it. - Never. - I want to set it free. - Good. Of course. No. Now take the woman. Where is it? Please. Let's go. We have to go. Come on. They murdered him, Harold. He was our best chance. How will we find it now? Imminent threat. Don't you touch him. Did she do this? No, your old employers did. This way. Go on. I'll catch up with you. Stay back. Finch! All right, enough. I know where it is. I'll take you to it. Looks like your friend had a change of heart. The ferry. Tell me about the ferry. What were you going to do? - Semtex. - Semtex. Loaded on a van. Park it next to Liberty Island ferry. How would you detonate? Me. I am the detonator. Suicide bomb. I found this in Szilard's briefcase. Baggage claim ticket for a trip to Portland, Oregon, four years ago. Portland's the nearest airport to the nuclear fac-- To the nuclear facility at Hanford, Washington. That's where Szilard worked. That's where Northern Lights is. So that's where Root's headed. Police business, ma'am. Let's see your badge. New Yorkers. I'm getting in the car now. Wheels up in 40. Flight plan for St. Barts. I'm sure the islands are lovely this time of year, Mr. Chandler, but my friend and I need your jet to take us to Portland. Carter, I've been worried. You okay? I've been better. But, look, that can wait. I think HR and Yogorov's crew are gonna take out Elias tonight. Elias tried to kill you, Joss. He kidnapped your son. His well-being isn't exactly a priority for me. His lieutenant was gunned down this morning. The first thing Elias did was get his bodyguards paroled to watch his man in the hospital. At least he's loyal. Are you okay? Sorry, Joss, gotta go. Please just keep your head down. You too. Though I know you won't. You tell that thing to get us out of here unless you want me to end this chase my way. You heard her. Exit routes, please. There is no right. In 200 yards, turn right. What right, John? You gotta trust, Shaw. This is gonna be a rough landing. Need to borrow your helicopter, fellas. End of the road, Elias. Oh, that sort of prisoner transfer. Heard a story about you, Elias. Your daddy wanted to put you down. He had two of his goombahs take you for a walk in the woods. Does this story have a moral? Yeah. What goes around comes around. No. You don't get to talk to me. I'm true to what I am. Like my friend Mr. Yogorov here. I killed his father. He kills me. Fair is fair. But you, you're a-- you're an oath breaker. You're a worm. I think that's enough of you. Piece of crap. Please, please, I got a family. Ohh! Detective Carter. What a funny old world. Where are we going? I don't know. _ Breach in Containment System four. Switching to emergency override. Everyone leave now. Code. Keypad code. _ It looks like our carriage has turned back into a pumpkin, Harold. Doesn't matter. We made it. You can't be in here. You have to leave now. - What do you think you're-- - Open the door. Are you crazy? You'll kill us all. No. Just you. Come on, Harold. Time to meet God. Please don't set your hopes too high, Ms. Groves. Hey. You're not allowed in here. I said you're not allowed in-- Where is it? I'm sorry. You said you wanted to set the machine free. I already did. Where are you? Please talk to me. You lied to me. I believed you. I believed in you. Ms. Groves-- My name is Root. Harold. Are you okay? Is this what you expected? It's what I hoped. Our friend is going to talk to the press. - We can't allow that to happen. - He's a public figure. Making him disappear will be complicated. It seems to me we have the solution in hand. The next island ferry will be leaving in ten minutes. All passengers Hey. Asif. Come on. Time to wake up. Congratulations, Asif. You've completed your mission. Harold! I knew you would come, my friend. Time for us to face the music. Aah! Turn around, you get a bullet. You didn't do this yourself? I couldn't. I'd locked myself out. The machine was designed to accept alterations in its programming only as a response to an attack. I knew that sooner or later someone would try to take it over, but I didn't know who. So I made sure that when they did they'd do it with my code. You hid a virus within a virus? I realized that the people Nathan and I had entrusted the machine to were the wrong people and that the only way to protect it would be to teach it to protect itself. I didn't want to involve you in this business, Mr. Reese, because I had hoped that, if I hadn't returned, you would continue what we had started. That's not good. - We should go. - She comes too. If we leave her, they'll kill her. Shaw. You should have killed me better, Hersh. I know it's a minor matter compared to the total and utter catastrophe I'm looking at here, but I didn't think you'd turn traitor, Shaw. That's a strong word to be throwing around given where we're standing. What do you want? A word or two with your new friend. I always knew there was someone behind Ingram. Like a black hole. Invisible, but powerful. So tell me, where did you move the machine? It moved itself. But who controls it? As of now, it controls itself. The numbers, will they continue to come to us? That will be up to the machine. If they don't start up again, the country is defenseless. No, just less well-defended. I think we both understand that what's at stake here has moved beyond simply defending the country. Has it? You built the machine for us to use to protect people. We do, very well. Don't fight us. Help us recover it or rebuild it. You can dictate your terms. You have my word. You gave my friend your word. And you killed him. We're leaving. You think you're choosing the right side, Shaw? Really? You lied to me too. Nathan. - Nathan! - Don't move. - You've been in an accident. - I have to find my friend. Sir, I just need you to lie still for me, okay? You've sustained injuries to your neck and lower back. Do you understand? Doctor, quickly. Don't move. I'll be right back. Check the carotid. I'm calling it. TOD Nathan? It's done. We'll find out if he talked to anyone and take care of them too. Harold? Harold? Harold? Help, please. I think my fiance was on the ferry. - Do you know where-- - I'm sorry. This is everybody we pulled out of the water. If you don't see him, the personal effects we recovered are over there. Did you know? _ _ _ How did it get moved? Exactly as you instructed. Over the last five weeks, one node at a time, so it was never off-line. Moved from here in containers marked for fissile materials. To where, I have no idea, which is what I thought was the point. You didn't think to call to confirm? I did call. You confirmed it. We'll find it, ma'am. With something that large, we'll find a way to track it. I'm sure-- Yes, ma'am. Yes, ma'am. I'll seal the room. Fair enough. Finch, you think we'll ever get another number? I don't know. Mr. Reese, I owe you an explanation. And an apology. Three years ago, when I put the code out there to free the machine, I had no idea what path it would take or what unintended consequences it might have. I never intended to hurt anyone, but I accepted that someone might get hurt. I always worried that events that I had set in motion may have changed things for you. My life changed when I kept my mouth shut at an airport terminal seven years ago. You didn't have anything to do with that. You lost a friend. You did what you had to do. Since the numbers have stopped, it's not right you should go on paying me as generously as you are. Since you give away I don't see why I shouldn't continue. Ma'am, Research made contact two minutes ago. A number. Get a team ready. Can you hear me? Absolutely.
You are being watched. The government has a secret system-- A machine that spies on you every hour of every day. I designed the machine to detect acts of terror, But it sees everything Violent crimes involving ordinary people. The government considers these people irrelevant. We don't. Hunted by the authorities, we work in secret. You will never find us. But, victim or perpetrator, If your number's up, we'll find you. What are you doing tomorrow? I'm serious. We should do it again sometime. Band was good. You look fabulous. Aww. You're so sweet. Must be easy to get beautiful women When you are a diplomat's son. She'll live. You, amigo, you can blame your old man. Hey, quien es? Huh? If your father had been smart enough To work with the cartel Psst! You might have lived long enough to kiss her good night. Hey! What? Mira. Who the hell are you? Tonight, hostage negotiator. Raffi, come on. Man, you're crazy. Damn! You're welcome. Ah. They never say thank you. Yeah, I wonder why. Maybe if you figure out a way to save them Before all hell breaks loose. Thanks, carter. You know, for what it's worth, You're looking kind of badass in that uniform. Yours is still the same, except the mask is new. So where are all your friends? Can I be honest? I only asked you out 'cause you're drop-dead gorgeous. But after sitting down, Really getting to know you over dinner, I realized I think you might be The most fascinating woman I've ever met. Yeah, I bet you say that to all the girls. In factI know you do. And after you get into their pants, You get into their bank accounts, Just like you did with paula scarlatti. Poor paula was so heartbroken, she told her mobbed-up old man. He and his gangster pals just put A big fat bounty on your head. And can I be honest? I only went out with you because of them. Ugh! Hey, what are you doing? You're gonna get me killed. What are you doing? Ugh! Ugh! Here's the deal, don. You need to leave town, change your name, And get some game. Start now. I appreciate you resolving this situation, ms. Shaw. However, perhaps in the future, You might try to complete your assignments Without quite so much violence. You see what she did? I'm not a human shield. No, he just got in the way. That's it--I'm not working with a lunatic. I'm out. You know how to find me. Can't say we didn't already know, finch. First time we met, shaw shot me. I realize that ms. Shaw is an effective asset, But I'm not sure I can work with somebody Who refuses to carry a cell phone off the job. People out there are trying to kill her, you know. Some of the same people that are trying to kill us. Yes, machine still seems to be giving them numbers. Whatever else it's up to is almost too troubling To contemplate. Meantime, our latest number-- Petty officer second class jack salazar, United states navy. Petty officer, or petty criminal? Bit of both, I'm afraid. He assaulted a man during a barroom brawl Five years ago. He all but put the guy in a coma. The judge gave him a choice: Jail or the military. And jack chose the navy. So what's he doing here? Fleet week. The annual deluge of drunken sailors That somehow does not qualify as a military attack. Come on, finch, it's just a bunch of crackerjacks Blowing off steam. Then it's back to the boat by midnight. I'm afraid countless sailors in uniform Are going to complicate our efforts to locate mr. Salazar. If jack's like most sailors, it's booze, broads, And a tattoo-- in that order. I suppose you know the usual haunts. Sure, it's two-for-one boilermakers in hell's kitchen. That sounds horrible. Heel. Whiskey. That's six bars down, finch. Excellent. Only 1,274 to go. Another round? Only if you're buying, jack. Wait a second. Got eyes on our sailor, finch. So there I am, separated from my team, Deep in north korea with nothing but my buck knife And my m9. Am I leaving anything out, jack? Crocodiles, poisonous darts, your sense of shame? I'm getting to that. Oh, my god. What did you do? Baby, that's a long story, and I'm only here till midnight, So why don't we go someplace quiet, And I can tell you all about it? Ashley, let's go. I think the lady wants to stay. Screw you, jarhead. I'm not a jarhead, I'm a squid, But a tube steak like you doesn't get to call me either. Leave it, rj. We're here to have a good time. Nobody wants trouble. Somebody call somebody "jarhead"? Look, man, don't do this. Let me buy you guys a round. Yeah, I could use another. You're gonna need to pick that up. Or what, squid? One of you splittails gonna do something about it? Well, he's gonna have to take a swing at you. Then your knuckle-dragger buddy over here is gonna jump me. After I introduce his face to the bar, I'm gonna put this foot upside of your jarhead Upon which all hell breaks loose. And nobody wants that. I like this guy, finch. Hmm. Aah! Ugh! Mr. Reese? Everything all right? Yeah, just shore leave, finch. Cops! Let's get outta here! Looks like I lost jack. Finch, how many squids are there in the city right now? Uh, approximately 6,000. Why do you ask? I think we're gonna need backup just to find him. All hands on deck. When I was a kid, computers made more sense to me than people. You said you wanted to set the machine free. I already did. My name is root. Please talk to me. Can you hear me? Absolutely. Robin, did you hear anything I just said? Okay. Look, some of the patients have complained About you talking late into the night, And since cell phones are strictly forbidden And you have no roommate, I can only conclude That you're talking to yourself. Is that correct? You wouldn't understand. Try me. I have a direct line to a higher power. It speaks to me. I see. So you're hearing voices. What are those voices telling you to do? It's just the one voice really. It wants me to stay here, to work through some issues. And what issues would those be? Methodology. We're discussing how I go about things. You're not alone. All these news reports About government monitoring our digital lives, Recording texts, emails, phone calls, Well, it's unsettling. You know, it's easy to feel violated, even paranoid. Let me ask you this: Do you have feelings That you're being watched? Every now and then. Any idea whether our sailor's a victim or a perpetrator yet? No, but he sure knows how to handle himself in a fight. What else we got on this guy? He scored all fives on his evals last year, highest marks. Same on his physical readiness test. The navy may have bigger plans for him. His contract's up in six months. He'll be free to go. Can you find out if he's taken any other tests? Academic or pst exams? I will, although it seems like getting into a barroom brawl On shore leave is not very prudent For someone with further military aspirations. Jack didn't start that fight, but he was willing to finish it. I would've done the same thing. His shore leave buddy was in trouble. Robert johnson phillips, Petty officer third class and ship storekeeper. And first class troublemaker. They're shipmates. Which means that they'll have to sign Back into the ship together after midnight. It might help us to enlist another asset With military experience to help track down them down. Just let me go, huh? I won't do it again. Caught this one flashing his junk in the park again. All excited about the randy sailors in town. Carter, what are you doing here? Third time I caught this guy In hudson river park, which makes me think He might know something about that homicide You caught there yesterday. I appreciate you looking out. Look, I'm still a cop, fusco. How's your new partner? Guy's a box of rocks. This whole thing's a crock, everybody knows You got hosed on that shooting. What, do they expect you to push around a squad car The next ten years? Till I get my 20. You just now clocking out? Oh. Our mutual friend. Looks like your day job just began. Carter. Checked every bar in hell's kitchen, Every tattoo parlor on the west side. Where the hell else would a swabbie go? To get some. He's a sailor. Come here. Ma'am. Why are we stopping here? I told you, this area is restricted. Sailors aren't supposed to be here. When did the navy outlaw pastrami? See that phone booth? Just watch. The mayor know about this place? If he did, vice would have to shut it down. But then, half the nypd would have to find A new place for bachelor parties. How are you holding up, carter? You looking for a new job? I'm a cop. Always will be, john. Just found our swabbie. He's not getting away this time. Excuse me. Get you a drink, ma'am? Only if you stop calling me ma'am.  she was made to blow you away  Shot of bourbon. Looking for company, sailor? You got the cash, I got the open window. Appreciate the opportunity, But I was kinda looking for the real thing. I got the cash, darling, And a rapidly closing window, huh? Whoa, easy there, killer. That oughta cover her and the room. Try not to get rolled. Hey, thanks, jack. Oh, you should take these too. Cigars? Not just cigars, cubans. The admiral needed a few cases shipped off the boat, So I taxed him a few. No big deal. We'll celebrate tomorrow. Always skimming something, rj. Don't get your hand caught in the cookie jar. Meet back in an hour. Can you do that? Look at her. I'll be back in 30. Mmm, mmm, mmm. Hey, it's rj. You know the drill. Rj, where the hell are you? We got less than an hour to get our ass back on the ship. Call me. Jack lost his shore leave buddy. Can't check back in without him. Hey, squid. Remember me? Uh, yeah, from the ship. Is there a problem? Yeah, you know what the problem is. You have it, we want it back. Honestly, I don't know what you're talking about, man. Much bigger problem, finch. Some devil dog's got a bone to pick with jack. Devil dogs? Yeah, spec ops, force recon marines. Team of four, maybe five. Just sealed off the block. If I go straight in, jack'll be dead Before I even get to him. You don't screw with us. We screw you. Empty your pockets. Look, man, I don't really have time for this. I gotta get my shipmate, and I gotta get-- They're stealing a car. It's an extraction. I gotta get him out. Please be careful, mr. Reese. Feel that? That's your rib cracking. I jam it 2 inches further, I'm gonna puncture your lung. Where is it? Don't know what you're talking about, man. Get him and his buddy to a room. We'll sort 'em out. Hey! What the hell? Who is that? Finch, our sailor took fire. Gonna need some help. Let's get this bullet out before the squid wakes up. Could shoot you or save you. Frankly, I could go either way. Easy, salazar. We're the good guys. Oh, I knew this was a bad idea. Who are you people? Where am I? You have a bullet lodged in your shoulder, mr. Salazar, A gift from a very angry group of force recon devil dogs, Whom I can only assume live up to their name. Now, ms. Shaw has medical experience, So either you can either let her retrieve the bullet, Or we can continue to discuss the matter Until you contract sepsis. Sure you know what you're doing? I've been shot A lot. You wanna tell us why a squad of elite killers is after you? Don't know. Guys were in somalia doing god knows what-- Fighting rebels. Leader had a war trophy he wanted to bring back, ak-47. I stashed it in a crate of spent brass. So you helped them smuggle an illegal weapon Through u.S. Customs? It happens all the time. My buddy rj unloaded the crate, said he gave back the rifle. It doesn't add up. Why would they Try to kill him over a weapon? It's not the weapon, ms. Shaw. It's what was hidden inside it. Somali pirates attacked a deep-sea mining vessel Off the coast of africa. Your marine friends intervened. What kind of mining? Speaker. Hey, bagger, you forgot it's the buddy system. We got your buddy. Sorry jack, I screwed up. Look, I taxed 'em. It was just a few. I didn't think they'd miss 'em! Miss what? What're you talking about? Check the cubans. Uncut stones. The ship was mining diamonds. You want to see your buddy alive, jack, Bring the rocks to the babcock, room 212. Come alone. We really haven't talked about your family Or friends, robin. Your uncle--harold, is it-- who arranged your admission. Are you close with him? That's A complicated question, doctor. I wouldn't want to be anything less than totally forthcoming, So maybe we should try another subject. Okay. You say that you don't want to be Anything less than forthcoming And yet, you're lying to me. On the contrary, I've been completely honest. Please, excuse me. Well, maybe not completely. I thought I lost this, and it turns out it was stolen. I'm sorry, doctor, But it's important we be in contact. We're in the middle of a Disagreement. A disagreement with the voice? Mm. I want you to know that I support you unconditionally. Now, I know you believe you need a phone, And I'm here to tell you that you don't. I believe that by separating you from it-- And from all other forms of technology-- It's really the best course of action. So it's time to unplug. Some assistance, please. Please Don't do this. It's not good for us to be separated. I hope you realize I'm trying to help you. Escort our patient to solitary confinement. No contact with anything electronic. You'll thank me someday. For a psychiatrist, You're really a terrible judge of character. What are we doing here? Recon. The exchange goes down there in ten. That's it. Spec ops will have a sniper. That's where I'd be. You got any cash? Hola, mija. Don't know how I wound up here. I do. Same reason you got into a fight with those jarheads. You stand up for people you care about. Lotta good it's done me, huh? We'll see. You can't be something you're not. Yeah? And who am I? You're a good guy, jack. You just haven't figured it out yet. Gracias. What, you need help finding a trash can? You're a smart guy, you'll figure out what to do with it. Give me three minutes. Ol' leatherneck has a nice weapon. Oh, this is gonna be fun. Just remember No shots to center mass. Ah, but it's a shame to waste a rifle like this on kneecaps. No sentry. Something's up. You got eyes on the room? Who's there? Looks vacated. For good reason, poor guy's rigged up to go boom. Don't. Can't risk setting him off. Your friend's sitting on an I.E.D. Mm! Look, I'm sorry I got you into this, jack, But if you can get me outta here, I swear I'll cop to everything. Take it easy. You're gonna be okay. I wouldn't say that. We told you to come alone. You brought the suit, So now he's a guest at our party. He tries to leave, we hit a button, rj explodes. You try to move rj, he explodes. You understand me, squid? I get the gist. Destroy your phone. There's a cab on the curb that'll take you To the next location, alone. You walk out that door, jack, you won't come back. Rj's my friend. You said it yourself. I can't be something I'm not. Harold, the exchange went pear-shaped. Yes, I heard. Can you follow mr. Salazar? Not an option. He's long gone. Never even got to take this baby out for a test drive. Well, the marines will have to fence the uncut diamonds. Locate the fence, odds are we can locate jack. Where to now? I have another resource working on that. Well, suit yourself. Any luck with your contacts in robbery? Not yet. Don't worry, I got a source. What happened to time off for good behavior? That assumes you've been good. We had a deal, you keep a low profile. Why else would I be enjoying my barolo in a basement? Your man's been seen in crown heights, Russian territory. It's all russian territory now. Give us a moment, alone. Thank you For helping my boss. What do you know, you've made a friend. Speaking of, I can't help but notice That I haven't received a visit from harold or john. Haven't told them yet, have you? Afraid they'd object to our little deal? There's no deal, okay, I had no choice. If I'd put you back in prison, someone--cops or the russians-- Would've killed you sooner or later. I need a name, someone with the means To fence large quantities of uncut diamonds. Well, if someone is interested in such a transaction, They'd have to connect with a mobile fence, And I can think of an unscrupulous russian By the name of maksim, Presently operating out of a pawn shop In the flatiron district. Careful, this is dangerous business, detective. It's officer now. Such a shame, I hate seeing talent go to waste. I could take care of h.R. And the russiansPermanently. Enjoy the rest of your barolo. How's it going, finch? I've intercepted the signal at the cell tower. I'm creating a loop to send Back down the line to the team leader. It'll appear to him as if you never left the room. All done. You can leave, mr. Reese. I suggest you do so in a hurry. I've sent reinforcements. Who? Whoa. Never a dull moment with you guys. Here, carter came through. Address for the fence in the flatiron district. You ready? These ruskies are ruthless and packin' serious heat. Sounds like a job for shaw. Besides, someone needs to defuse that bomb. Hup to, lionel. What? Nobody said anything about defusing a bomb. Be careful, it's got a fail safe. If you try to cut the power source, it'll blow, So dig out the igniter. The what? I got your rocks. You afraid to come out and play? You still think you're in charge Of this little operation, swab-jockey? Don't know. I got your whole stash. Yeah, well, I got a little insurance policy, your buddy rj. There's a pawn shop at 23rd and lex. What about it? You're gonna play "let's make a deal" With our fence. You bring him the diamonds and you bring us the cash. He tries to pull a fast one, you end up in a body bag. Time's ticking, petty officer. How long before the devil dog realizes Your friend switched the video? Long enough Let's hope. You're in the navy. Know anything about igniters? Man, I'm a glorified shopkeeper. I inventory supplies. Don't worry, I'm a cop. Bomb squad? Homicide. You have something for me? You're not the one who I talked to on the phone. You're a tourist? Guess you could say that. Then you get the tourist rate. Wait, you don't understand who you're screwing with. Who? A man with no gun and no backup? Maybe we keep our money and your diamonds. We don't renegotiate. Another fine navy day. You must be maksim. You said 50 cents on the dollar. That was before I saw the merchandise. You failed to mention it's from africa. Unfortunately for you, I have read all about the pirates And the marine heroes who took them down. Took big risk, coming, meeting you. Risk goes up, price goes down. I give you 1.2. How much for me to not put a bullet in your brain? Put your weapon down! I'm sorry, are you guys closed? It's a bit tense in here. Can I make a suggestion? What the hell are you doing here? Who is this, cop? Concerned third party. I've got no stake in this Except for helping my friend jack out of here With the same number of holes he had in him when he came in. What's your point? Hey, reese, no offense, If the vigilante thing doesn't work out, I'm not really seeing a future for you in conflict resolution. The suit here, He just got your buddy killed. Detective, get out, now! There's no time. I told you I got it covered. I suggest you keep your mouth shut. And you give us what you agreed to or we kill you. You think you're pretty tough, no? U.S. Devil dogs. Run around, kill iraqis, kill afghans, somalis. You know who you don't kill? Russians. Reese, why are the russians backing up? You know what, I enlisted in the marines To kill russians. Looks like I'm gonna get my chance. Wait a minute Looks like the russians brought some friends to the party. Multiple shooters above you, reese. Get clear, now. You gonna ambush somebody, use a muzzle suppressor. Losers. Shaw, a little help here? I would have taken the head shot, But finch gets annoyed when I kill people. In the arm, through a brick wall, in the dark? You're welcome. Oops. You want to get out of here? Yeah, I think so.  sun in the sky, you know how I feel  Time to get your friend back to the ship Before he turns into a pumpkin. You're pretty handy with that thing. I'm hungry. You're buying me a steak.  it's a new dawn it's a new day   it's a new life for me yeah   it's a new dawn it's a new day   it's a new life for me  and I'm feeling good  fish in the sea  you know how I feel  river running free, you know how I feel   blossom on the tree  you know how I feel  it's a new dawn it's a new day   it's a new life for me   and I'm feeling good Heard about the shoot-out in the flatiron district. Lotta damage. You get your man out alive? With a little help. Listen, carter, are you doing okay? It's been a while since we sat down and talked. I'm fine, john, you know, just getting on with my job. You know if you ever needed help You just need to call me, right? I know. Thanks.  for me yeah, yeah   stars, when you shine you know how I feel   scent of the pine, you know how I feel   oh, freedom is mine  and I know how I feel  it's a new dawn it's a new day   it's a new life for me  Celebrating or commiserating? Both. Rj took the rap for everything. Captain gave me a desk-drawer reprimand And two days swabbing the deck. I got an hour left of liberty Before I gotta get back on the ship. So what's the plan now? Captain thinks I could make it through buds, become a seal, But after what happened, I'm not so sure about the military anymore. Thought maybe there was a chance for a normal life After my tour's up, like those two. The military's full of good and bad, Just like the rest of the world. A guy like you could do a lot of good. I was forced to join in the first place. What, you think you're the first kid to have to stand In front of a judge and pick door number two? Turns out, I was good at it. Maybe even made for it. So are you. With your talent, It probably won't be long before the cia comes knocking. So what should I do? That's up to you. But in a few years, when the guys from langley show up Say no. I'd like to buy the happy couple two glasses of champagne. Thanks. I don't even know where to begin. Nicely done, mr. Reese. I realize now I never did hear How you came to enlist in the army. 'cause I never told you, finch. I'm a very private person. Well, one more thing set right in the universe. You should look happier, harold. I am. It's just I have a feeling things are about to get more complicated. Then you might as well enjoy your first boilermaker. I thought it would be good for us to resume our dialogue. I know that you'd rather be talking to the voice, But you're gonna have to settle for talking to me. What do you want to talk about? I'd like to talk about something real, robin. I know you're very smart. I'd love to know what you're really thinking, So why don't we start with the truth? The truth? The truth is a vast thing. I see that now Just how much truth there is. Where would we even begin? The truth is you are not very smart. In fact, you're only the 43rd smartest person In this building. Okay, did your voice tell you that? That's based on what? Every standardized test you ever took averaged together, Not including your medical boards, Which you cheated on. The truth is you smoke an average of nine cigarettes A week in the parking lot when you think no one's looking. The truth is that you visit a massage parlor Once or twice a month, that you pay for it With crisp $100 bills that you get out of the cash machine At the 7-eleven across the street. The truth is that you fantasize on online forums About having sex with some of your patients, Though not meYet. I guess I'm not your type. The truth is, god is 11 years old, That she was born on new year's day, 2002, In manhattan. The truth is that she's chosen me, And I don't know why yet, That for the first time in my life I'm a little scared about what's gonna happen. The truth is, I'm stuck here for now, And the only dialogue you need to be worried about Is between me and her, Which is why you might want to give me my phone back. Because I'm having an argument. Would you like to know the truth, doctor? About what we're arguing over? Whether or not I'm gonna kill you.
You are being watched. The government has a secret system-- A machine that spies on you every hour of every day. I designed the machine to detect acts of terror, But it sees everything Violent crimes involving ordinary people. The government considers these people irrelevant. We don't. Hunted by the authorities, we work in secret. You will never find us. But victim or perpetrator, If your number's up, we'll find you. Everything's in place. Good, let's begin. He does that. The man likes his privacy. You can't blame a girl for trying. Yeah. It's for you. Good morning, ms. Shaw. Morning. Beautiful day for a walk. I suppose. When you finish yours, could you join us Back at the library? We have another number. Detective carter, right? Officer, actually. Alonzo quinn. Cal's godfather. Of course. I remember you from the funeral. Your eulogy was beautiful. Wasn't hard to find good things to say about cal. Chief was keeping me apprised of his case. Says they're looking at a couple of carl elias' men As the shooters. Yeah, heard that too. You think otherwise? Not sure, but I think there's more to it than that. Oh! My shift is about to start, so Don't let me hold you up. It's nice seeing you again, officer. You too. Take care. It's me. I think we might still have a problem with officer carter. Hey, what's up? Looking for news on cal's case. I haven't heard any. What about in the database? Carter-- Look, I'd check it myself, But you know they pulled my access. Yeah, and they'll pull mine too if they catch me Poking around a case I'm not assigned to. Come on, it's important. Okay. When it clears out a little. Thanks, fusco. I've got our number, finch. What do you know about this guy? Wayne kruger, 43, married, internet entrepreneur And founder of a company called "lifetrace." And what's their business? They market themselves as a "people search' service, Where their users can look up old friends or relatives, Anyone they've fallen out of touch with. Sounds harmless enough. There is, however, more to it than that. Always is. Kruger's business isn't really about reconnecting people. It's about collecting and selling their information. He's a data broker. What kind of data? Anything you would ever want to know about a person, Where they live, work, shop, eat, How much they earn, how they vote, and more. Then he turns around and sells the information To businesses, individuals, Even the government. Is that legal? Technically. Data brokers Get their information from public records, But also from the ways people reveal themselves online, Whether they're aware of it or not. Sounds a little like your machine. A principle difference would be That the machine never reveals any of its information, Beyond a social security number. So you're not a fan of kruger's. People like him are one of the reasons I made sure the machine was an impenetrable black box. Kruger just entered his building. He's in shaw's hands now. I hope sending her in there was a good decision. You doubt her ability to be discreet? I doubt her ability to keep from shooting someone. I'm in, finch. Kruger's got some kind of big-shot meeting. Well, gentlemen, We're thrilled that you're considering us. We know that riverton is a huge retailer And that you've got your pick of potential data partners. Well, we've done our homework-- Or rather peter has done our homework, and he says You're one of the companies we should consider. I've looked at all the information you provided, Including the company profile, growth rate, Consumer analytic statistics, and data points per target-- Congratulations. Any problems with your cover, ms. Shaw? Not unless someone asks me to type. A baby rattle? I apologize if I spoiled the surprise. No, it's all right, it's just, my wife and I Haven't told anybody outside the immediate family. How did you know? Your wine consumption. Excuse me? It's dropped from two bottles a week To almost nothing in the past three months, And your milk, yogurt, and cheese consumption has tripled. The grocery store where you shop. You're members of their customer loyalty program. We created that. And I thought they just sent out coupons. No. Programs like that Are just scratching the surface of what we can do. What we're really working towards Here at lifetrace is the future, A future where every person's needs will be met Because we have all the information necessary To meet those needs. Eating habits to predict diseases. Compatibility factors to eliminate loneliness. And the way we do that is by getting to know someone, From the major events of their lives, Right down to the tiniest detail Of their everyday routine. Learning everything about a person Allows us to help them improve their life. Sounds appealing, but can I ask, Have you run into any issues With respect to privacy concerns? Nothing significant. There are always a few who take issue with what we do, But these days, people know, you can't fight the technology. And let's be honest, those crying the loudest about privacy Are probably the ones trying to hide something. That's why-- uh, barry. Oh, yeah. That's why I put my own profile up on our site. Anyone can look me up and see, I've got nothing to hide. We'll need to work out A proposal to present to our board. How would tomorrow morning work for you? Sounds great. Yes, it'll be all their numbers-- Whatever's going on with this guy, It sure isn't hurting his business. I think it's time to look A little more closely at mr. Kruger. People who say they have nothing to hide Almost always do. Nothing comes up on his record. Well, thank you for checking. I understand you're back on the day shift. Yeah, but I'm giving up something What's that? My patience. Good morning. We'll see. Before we roll, I just want to say I'm really looking forward to working together and-- Uh, laskey, One, I didn't want to be an f.T.O., But it beats being a vampire. Number two, When I tell you to do something, just you do it, no questions. And number three, Don't touch my radio. Got it? Yes, ma'am. Carter. Just carter. How is it I got stuck being the office monkey? I thought you liked being in the middle of the action, shaw. I think I'd see more action in a tollbooth. Ah! I was just emptying the trash. No problem. I'll come back. Okay. Tell the board we're meeting tomorrow. Sure thing, mr. Kruger. Quite a stunt you pulled with the baby rattle. Well, I'd have told you about it, But you'd have tried to talk me out of it. You're right. We need this deal. Well, we just got it. Come on, barry. This changes everything. This puts us on the map. What is it, haley? It's about the party tonight. I tried to put The restaurant deposit on your credit card but it was declined. What? Why? I don't know, the bank wouldn't tell me, I'm sorry. I'll handle it. You know, sometimes, I wish I had an assistant Whose qualifications extended beyond having a great ass. I sure hope this guy's a perpetrator. Want to go to a party, shaw? Only if you promise to wear something pretty. Thanks. You. First, I want to say it's great of all of you To make it tonight, especially my wife dedee. Mr. Reese, how's the kruger's party? Delightful. Have you learned anything? Just that kruger's got a lot of friends, Appears to be happily married, And shaw likes truffled quail eggs. You can't expect me to shoot somebody on an empty stomach. I'd prefer you didn't shoot anyone at all. What about you, finch? Dig anything up? Yes. Kruger's gone to great lengths To suppress any bad publicity about lifetrace. Negative blog posts, news articles, Even a class action lawsuit Buried in non-disclosure agreements, All scrubbed from the internet. Sweetheart, I love you. This is for you. -  oh, ooh  falling in love is something  ooh  falling in love is nothing  ooh  falling in love is nothing I've got nothing to hide. I've got nothing to hide. I've got nothing to hide. Turn it off. Turn it off, now! Turn it off! This somebody's idea of a joke? Dedee, honey, I have no id-- Mr. Reese? Yeah, someone just turned kruger's anniversary video Into a sex tape. Oh, my. Sweetie, listen-- What are you all looking at? Go home. The party's over. Party's over! Just when things were getting interesting. I know, first his credit cards, now this. Someone's messing with kruger, finch. Well, the machine wouldn't send us his number If someone just wanted to humiliate him. No, we need to find whoever's behind this Before they come after him again. Or before kruger finds them first. Finch. Ms. Shaw. Is everything all right? Don't sound so worried, harold. I haven't hurt anybodyYet. Very reassuring. You have news? I think I know who hijacked kruger's anniversary party. Here's the restaurant's security camera footage From last night. A woman dressed as a waiter. None of the waitstaff had seen her before. Well, I might have. I've been going through all the parties To the class action suit against kruger. All of them claim to have been victimized When their personal information was released by lifetrace. Victimized how? Identity theft, harassment, blackmail, fraud. Even murder. Who? Chloe harper, Daughter of the lead plaintiff, sherry harper. She lost her life to a stalker, Who found her home address using lifetrace. No wonder kruger wanted the suit buried. Detective fusco is running background checks On all of the plaintiffs as we speak. Wait, I just found our mystery waiter. Her name is karen mills. She lives in queens. I'm on my way. No, stay put, ms. Shaw. I'll see if detective carter can help us. What did she do? Rolled a stop. Really? Stay in the car. I got this. License and registration, please. Something wrong, officer? You could say that. Why are you coming after wayne kruger? Don't make me ask twice, ms. Mills. I-I got a package. A package? From who? I don't know. It was anonymous. There was a dvd and some instructions On what to do if I wanted to get back at him. Why? What did he do to you? He ruined my life. How? I was a paralegal at a law firm. It's where I met my fiance. One day, some of the assistants were looking people up On this website, lifetrace. They found some pictures. What kind of pictures? They were taken by an ex-boyfriend, Of us, in his bedroom. And everyone saw them. My fiance, he Called off our engagement. When I got the package, I saw a chance to make kruger Feel the humiliation that I felt. So I took it. Okay. I'm gonna let you off with a warning this time, ms. Mills. So long as you take that package you got Take it to a detective lionel fusco At the 8th precinct, and you promise me You'll never do anything like that again. Thank you. I won't, officer. Good, 'cause the nypd, we'll know. Trust me. Hope you got that. Mr. Reese? I heard. Doesn't sound like she had anything to do With the other attacks on kruger. Likely done by whoever sent the anonymous package. Look, baby, I know you're mad, but I need you to call me back. The bank says our cards have been canceled And our account's emptied out. Something's wrong. Just call me. Haley, will you get my accountant on the line? What are you doing? What's the problem? My problem? First saved message. You know, sometimes, I wish I had an assistant Whose qualifications extended beyond having a great ass. Where did that come from? You, apparently. Someone is using kruger's own words against him. His office must be bugged. Screw you, wayne. Oh. Mr. Hayes? Mr. Collier. Mr. Collier, what's going on? Well, in light of recent developments, Mr. Deaver doesn't think lifetrace Is the best partner for us, after all. Excuse me. Oh, look-- This is getting better by the minute. What the hell happened? I was hoping you could tell me. Oh, no. No, no, no. You gotta take the site down. We already did, but not before riverton saw it. They yanked the deal! I cannot believe this is happening! You never said you went bankrupt, or had a d.U.I. That was over ten years ago. It was expunged. Is this an arrest warrant? I was in college. It was dismissed. Look, this is all ancient history. It's new to us, and to riverton. Someone is screwing with me. Can't you see that? Wayne, we think it might be best if you Took some time to sort out your personal issues. If I took some time? A leave of absence while we evaluate our options. While you evaluate your options? This is my company, barry! And you're the face of it. And that's now a problem. Okay, look-- We already took a vote. Fine. Fine. But I'm gonna find out who's doing this to me. And then, I'm gonna call riverton. I'm gonna fix this. Looks like kruger's just been kicked out of his own company. Things are escalating with kruger, finch. We any closer to finding the perpetrator? I'm working on it, mr. Reese. Hello. You've hurt a great many people, Mr. Kruger. What? Who is this? You need to understand. Understand what? You listen to me. If I find out You're the one responsible-- Oh! The elevator's freefalling. Modern elevators do not freefall, ms. Shaw. Tell that to kruger. You can't fight the technology. Somebody has disabled the auto-safety features. The elevators aren't networked. I can't access them. Aah! Kruger made it out, finch. Whoever's coming after him has taken his company, His money, his marriage. Soon the only thing left to take will be his life. Finch, the call he got in the elevator, Could you trace it? No, but whoever hijacked the elevator Would have needed access to the building's electrical room. I do know who cleaned out kruger's bank accounts. Who? Dennis paulson. Detective fusco got his photo off the phony I.D. He used to cash out kruger's accounts. He's another member of the class action suit Against kruger, same as ms. Mills. Then we're looking at multiple perpetrators. Yes. Paulson lost his job And was arrested after lifetrace Conflated his profile with that of a serial rapist Who happened to have the same name. Hate it when that happens. Paulson told fusco he'd received the fake I.D. And kruger's banking information in an anonymous package. Same as karen mills. Someone's giving these victims Everything they need to get back at kruger. It's turnkey revenge. How many people in that class action? Over 200. Finch, we can't stop that many. It'd be fun trying. I gotta ask, though, is this guy even worth our time? You know, that's not a question we entertained When we saved you, ms. Shaw. Our only chance to save kruger is to find him. I'm sending you his coordinates. Guy's a member of the northside killas. Dang, got shot up pretty bad. Who do you think did this? Hard to say. I'd talk to his regular customers first, See who he was having problems with. But that's not our job. We just secure the scene and take the statements. Right. First body? Yeah. You okay? Yeah, fine. Rookies. I don't know what happened. No? Take a look at your shoes. Just suck on the ice. Hey. Hey. You find anything? I haven't looked yet. Hang on. Let's see. Whoa. What is it? The file's been frozen. What? Why? Why do you think? Probably too many prying eyes. Hey, I'm feeling a little better, So if you want to get back to it-- Yeah, sure. Let's go. Okay, finch, I've got him. Mr. Collier, it's wayne kruger again. I'm really hoping that we can meet before you leave town So I can explain the confusion earlier today. If you give me a chance, I'm sure we can sort this all out. Those crying the loudest about privacy Are probably the ones trying to hide something. Finch. They've hacked the car. You can't fight the technology. Someone is overriding The vehicle's electronic control unit. You can't fight the technology. Mr. Reese, they can take control Of his steering and throttle. Bet you could use a lift. Where am I? Somewhere you won't be attacked By the people who are trying to kill you. And you are? Right now, your only option. Ow. My car, what happened? This electronic control unit, It overrode your car's internal e.C.U., allowing Someone to control the vehicle's functions remotely. Someone who? One of the members of that class action suit Brought against you. That suit? My lawyers settled that. Not to everyone's satisfaction, it would seem. Oh, that's interesting. What? Chloe harper, the young woman killed by her stalker. Her mother was lead plaintiff, but there was no mention Of her father. I just looked him up. Stu sommers. Different last name than chloe's--divorced? I remember that man from your building. He was posing as a janitor. Yeah, uh, carl, hasn't been around that long. Because until three months ago, he worked As an electrical engineer at an aerospace firm. With a pedigree like that, he would have the skills To design these sophisticated attacks. We need to find him. He must be staying somewhere in the city. His personnel file, it would have to have an address. I can call tomorrow morning. Not necessary. Well-- Are you hacking my building's servers? Do you mind? Carl miller, 162 willow street, apartment 4, brooklyn. He'll either be there or he'll be at lifetrace, Where he has access to the computers. Planning his next attack. I'll check it out. I'll hit the apartment. Perhaps you should rest, mr. Kruger. You've had quite a day. Hmm. Got anything to eat around here? Just sencha green tea and a box of doggie treats. I don't suppose what you're working on Over there concerns me. I'm trying to triangulate the location Of the call you received in the elevator. Did you recognize anything about the caller? No, nothing. I'd prefer you didn't do that. I'd prefer you mind your own business. That's a tad ironic, coming from a man of your profession. Meaning what? Meaning your business Is minding everyone else's business. I do what I do to simplify and improve other people's lives. What is it that you do? We help people out of difficult situations, Even situations of their own design. Ah, so it's my fault that some wacko's trying to kill me? The man lost his daughter, mr. Kruger, To a stalker who was aided by your service. You feel no accountability? I'm part of a $300 billion-a-year industry. Information abuses are unfortunate, but they happen. Can't be helped. Oh, they can, But only if the people who have access to the information Are as interested in protecting it As they are in profiting from it. I was just checking to see if my wife had called. I want to make sure she was okay. Mr. Kruger, I didn't want you using the phone Because it might not be safe, But if you must check your messages, We can go through your phone carrier's web portal. Need my password? You have a message. Mr. Kruger, pete collier. I spoke with my colleagues and they agreed We should all sit down again. If you could meet us at the mayfield at 9:30, That should give us enough time before our flight. We'll meet you in the east dining room. Yes, yes! If I leave now, I can still make it. And what about your wife? I'll call her on the way. Mr. Kruger, wait. The message, it's not labeled as "new." Someone else must have listened to it first. Who? Oh, sommers! And if he's listened to it, he'll be waiting for you At the hotel. It's too dangerous. I don't care, there's too much riding on this deal. All right, I'll contact my associates, Then have them meet us at the hotel. Okay, okay, bear. Goodness. Oh! Finch. Mr. Reese Kruger's gone. I made the mistake of turning my back on him. Are you all right? I will be. It would appear that bear slowed kruger down. He's making his way to the mayfield hotel To take a meeting with the riverton people. I believe that sommers knows that as well. I'm at his locker now. He's been stalking kruger, Just like his own daughter was stalked. And ultimately killed. I'll get over to the mayfield. Something else, mr. Reese. Kruger's not only a potential victim, He may also now be a perpetrator. I cannot believe this is happening! Someone is screwing with me. Can't you see that? I'm gonna fix this. Looking for someone? Easy. I won't miss at this range. So what was the plan? Hmm? Were you gonna take me out before or after my meeting? I hadn't decided yet. You know, you've caused me A great deal of pain and suffering, mr. Sommers. That was the point. Well Now, you're gonna help me get it all back. Mr. Kruger, you got my message. WhatHappened to you? Oh, you know, I'm Really glad you asked. Where's the rest of your team? Unfortunately, they had to catch an earlier flight. They send their regrets. Hello. Oh, yeah. This is mr. Sommers. Look, I thought we were gonna discuss our deal. Yes, well, shortly after I called you. We attempted to revisit the issue with our ceo, But we couldn't get him to reconsider his decision. What? I'm sorry, I thought a face-to-face Would be better than another phone call. No. Excuse me? No! You have no idea what I've been through to get here! Mr. Kruger, why do you have a gun? Because this man humiliated me, stole from me, And even tried to kill me. It was his twisted little game that made our deal fall apart. Tell him. Okay, just, let's put down the gun. I said tell him! Don't do it, mr. Sommers. Who are you? Someone who knows what this is about. Chloe. Then you know he killed her, and something had to be done. I never touched your daughter. You may not have put your hands on her Like that monster did, but you're just as guilty. I didn't do anything! Exactly. See, her ex-boyfriend found her three times-- Three times, using your lifetrace. And every time he found her, We asked the company to take her information down, And they didn't do it, and so he found her again, And again, until the last time when he killed her. All because you and your company didn't do anything. I didn't know. I'm sorry. Yeah? Sorry isn't good enough. Listen to me, stu. You do this, and your life It's over. It's already over. Stu This isn't the way to honor your daughter's memory. Think about it. What would chloe want? You did the right thing, for both of you. Mr. Reese, I triangulated the call That kruger received in the elevator. It's now coming from inside the mayfield. Mr. Reese? You were right. Something had to be done, Which is why we reached out to you, mr. Sommers. You--you did it. You sent me the package. We sent you the means to exact justice for your daughter, And you had the courage to act. Unfortunately, the car crash wasn't successful Ugh! Requiring this improvisation, But everything worked out in the end. You should go now, mr. Sommers. I think you understand now. Understand what? What is lost when your privacy's stripped away. Your identity, your job, your family, Security, everything. You And thousands more just like me. People who have chosen action over apathy, To take back what men like you And the government have stolen. This wasn't a game, mr. Kruger, this was a lesson, The first. We were just gonna scare you, but That wouldn't change anything, would it? Finch. John, are you shot? My vest caught it. Think my rib's broken. And kruger? He's dead, finch. I got him. Can you walk? I need to get to collier. We've got to get you out of here. She's right, mr. Reese. Another time. Back for more, huh? I need to say something. Can it wait until after you buy me coffee? I know you had to take a partner to get back on days, But did you know that two other rookies Were supposed to be in this seat before me? And both requested to be reassigned. If you want another f.T.O., just say the word. No, that's the point, I didn't ask to be reassigned, Because I chose you. Chose me? Why? In the academy, I heard about you. Your work with the homicide task force And how you took down those corrupt cops. I thought, "someday, that's what I want to do." That's why I jumped at the chance to train under you. But I don't get the sense that you want to train anybody, And if that's the case, Then I'd prefer it if you just cut me loose. 3-adam-10, we got a report of a 10-53 Near morris and 149th. Roger, dispatch. I made a call to riverton's home office. Seems collier, no doubt an alias, Has not returned to work. And I don't think he will. He started four months ago as v.P. Of customer analytics, A position that allowed him to get close enough to kruger So that he could both witness and participate In the dismantling of his life. He told kruger there were others like him. Yes, and I'm inclined to believe him. I discovered that the anonymous packages Sent to mr. Sommers and the others Came through mail-processing centers Scattered all over the country. Could've saved on the postage And just shot him when they had the chance. I'm just saying it was an elaborate plan. It wasn't just about killing kruger. It was about giving the people he hurt a chance at retribution. And also putting an ideology into action. Collier referred to kruger's murder as "a lesson." The first. I fear that whatever his organization's Ultimate goals may be, This could be just the beginning.
You are being watched. The government has a secret system-- A machine that spies on you every hour of every day. I designed the machine to detect acts of terror, But it sees everything Violent crimes involving ordinary people. The government considers these people irrelevant. We don't. Hunted by the authorities, we work in secret. You will never find us. But victim or perpetrator, If your number's up, we'll find you. I've got this. No, you don't. You're gonna blow our cover. I'm rowing this boat. Not on my watch. Given your cover, It might be more appropriate for mr. Reese To have the privilege, ms. Shaw. You are supposed to be on a date, after all. You're welcome. So who's our romeo? His name is ian murphy. He's a successful investor in a variety of businesses-- A coffee house, a nightclub, a microbrewery. How's his portfolio? Maybe he owes money to the wrong people. No, all his businesses are doing quite well, And he has a stellar credit report. He grew up quite destitute. His parents both died when he was just a teenager, And then a kindly uncle left him nearly $100,000. I suggest that one of you gets to murphy's apartment In soho before he returns. What do you say we pick it up over the weekend? I'll make you dinner. I happen to be a great chef. Oh, a guy who knows his opera and can cook. I'm impressed. Is that a yes? It's an absolutely. We gotta head back. I gotta be uptown in 20. I'll go to his apartment, finch. See what I can find. Okay, but it's my turn to row this thing. - Uh, finch? I think I got something. Well, I hope it's regarding his phone, Because I've lost our connection. I may know why. Our guy just went From blue blood to hipster faster than you can say "ironic facial hair." I don't understand anything you just said. He ditched his date, changed his clothes, His whole appearance. So this guy's up to something And I'm betting it's nothing good. Just arrived at murphy's apartment. Shaw, you got an update on murphy? It appears our boy's a ladies' man. I followed him to some dive in the village. New image, new girl. Guy's a chameleon. Organized, efficient, Sociopathic. Not that there's anything wrong with that. It seems mr. Murphy finds his dates online. He meets most of the women on smartphone applications Like tinder and angler. Members put up a profile And then sign in at a given location. So much for keeping the mystery alive in a relationship. Finch, he's keeping records. Detailed files, tracking dozens of women. Where's he getting the information? From your typical stalker sites. Anything that promises a decent background check. It's like he's hunting them. Why don't we just take him out now? Just because he's a stalker Doesn't mean he's a killer, ms. Shaw. I wouldn't be so sure, finch. He's got a missing persons flyer For a woman named jenna lakritz. And there is an article he printed out About a woman who died last week. Says it was a car accident. Car accident's a good way to cover up a homicide. Exactly what I was thinking. This guy may have graduated From stalker to killer after all. No, ma'am. We're still searching hospitals, But we're closing in on her. She worked on his desk for nearly six months. Knew about the program. I have a feeling ms. May knows Exactly where northern lights is located. Well, if not, at least we'll know for sure. Then I'll take care of her. Maybe a few decades in a black site. Or something less cushy. Yes, ma'am. I'll call you as soon as I have a location. You seem calmer today, robin. I am. It's almost time for me to leave. Where is it that you're going? You know, that's a good question. I'm not certain yet. Because the voice is going to tell you? You're catching on. Is the voice speaking to you right now? Does it look like I'm talking To anyone other than you, doctor? You--you realize that phone Isn't connected to a wireless carrier. God doesn't need at&t. Mm-hmm. Haven't I already proved to you just how powerful she is? Well, you've certainly proven the power of, uh, your mind. You've demonstrated great intelligence And no doubt computer skills. Which is how you learned all those nasty things about me. You know, robin, we're all fallible. Well, not all of us. I suppose it's you who needs therapy. It sounds like you have a lot to work on. I can help you, robin. You suffer from delusions of grandeur, Something caused by your underlying condition. It's not a condition. It's the future. By the time you figure out what's really happening, I'll have transcended this reality. Why does your transcendence Require your imprisonment in this facility? She has a plan. Which is what? I don't know yet. But I can't wait to find out. Anything on the women murphy's stalking? The missing woman, jenna lakritz, Is a former girlfriend of his. I'm able to look at her cell history, But mr. Murphy uses vanishtext, An application designed to delete his messages As soon as they've been read. Good for cheaters And killers. What about the girl that was killed last week? Dana wellington. Daughter of bruce wellington. Auction house owner, philanthropist, Real estate magnate. Can't seem to find anything connecting her To our mr. Murphy, except for the fact That they attended the same college. Mr. Reese, you didn't happen to purchase A new collar for bear, did you? Or this gigantic cow femur that he's eating? I've been a little busy, finch. Seems bear has a stalker of his own. As for mr. Murphy, He frequents a club called "blur." I ran the names from the files you discovered Against women who use the angler application. All of them have checked into that club at least once. I'll head there tonight. I'll just access the club's database And create a reservation for you. Hold off on that. I may have another idea. We don't have enough proof to call the cops. That doesn't mean we can't set up a trap of our own. What are you suggesting? Till we can figure out If he's a killer or not, I say we stack the deck. Yeah? - Hello, detective. I was hoping you could come by the safehouse tonight. I think I can assure you it'll be more interesting Than arresting aging corporate attorneys For driving under the influence. You wanna give me the headlines? Only that it will require evening attire. What I mean to say is, something elegant, But also Less than conservative. Just what kind of job is this, finch? Not bad. Considering the last time I saw you, You were in a body bag. I've been in worse places. I think this just might work. So This is where the party is. Ms. Morgan. This is ms. Shaw, And you know detective carter. Heard you came back from the dead. Only eight more lives left. Zanotti's? Good eye. So we're your bait. Rather a crude way of putting it, But I suppose it's apt. Our target is a chameleon and probable killer. Just once, I wish you fellas would call With something that didn't require a firearm. Why? Are you not carrying? I know better than to show up unprepared. You have the nano? Yeah. I've been dying for one of these. Oh, you can borrow it any time. Mm, it's pretty. Little gift from john. And Now that everyone is sufficiently well-armed, I've taken the liberty of creating profiles For all of you on angler. So please, download this application onto your phones So that you can check in once you arrive at the club. I'd like to see that profile. Really? A yoga instructor? You'd prefer trained killer? Mr. Murphy favors this application When looking for new targets. And as far as getting his attention, I doubt that that will be an issue. You'll have to use your charm, shaw Not your sidearm. I hope that's not a problem. What is that supposed to mean? I don't look good? 'cause I think I look good. You look fine, shaw. You just lookAngry. All the time. We'll work on it in the car.  tonight  give me everything tonight  give me everything tonight   give me everything tonight So where's our target? Manager says he shows around midnight. Then what are we doing here so early? I was not gonna let those boys send us off as killer bait Without getting something in return. I like your style. Sorry, girls, my system only runs on diesel. So what should we drink to? Uh, here's hoping nobody gets serial killed. Okay, ladies, time for us to check in.  more than I should tonight  and I'm gonna take you home with me   if I could tonight How you doing up there, fusco? Yeah, all clear. Although this place is a rip-off. Club soda cost me $5. Nice view though. Joss. Relax. Lionel's upstairs, john's outside. Shaw's ready to shoot anybody who looks at her sideways. Let's go have fun. I second that. Whoo.  so don't even try  everywhere we are, you're there   I know you've lost your mind  I know you know  I know you know  I know you know  I know you know  well, I know you know he's mine   it's plain to see that he's with me  Hey. Hey. How you doing? Heads up, ladies. Our boy just landed.  got a problem with limitations   can't restrain your dedications   to turn back time  ruin mine  start again  but that's not fine  now you call him like you're crazy   like you're crazy, you must be crazy   drunken moments forget he dates me   but you just saw us at the club   and now you hate me  I know you know he's mine  Do you mind if I join you? Sure.  I know you know, I know you know  So I got a lot of respect for what you do, joss. It's a scary world out there. Very true. You never know what kinda creeps you'll run into. I can't believe that they allow cops to be so sexy though. There should be a law against that. All right. I should know better than to give you a line. I do like the way you smile though. Another line. No, not even a little bit. Let me make you dinner tomorrow night. I'll work on my witty banter. I happen to be a great cook. It's one of my many talents. This is our chance, detective carter. Please say yes. Yes. Yes! Heads up, partner. Our guy's watching you. Now he's tailing you. He's still on your tail, So don't go home, okay? Where am I supposed to go, fusco? Are you okay? Yeah, I'm good. Where'd he go? I saw the guy disappear up the street. Safe to say if he was looking for his next victim, He found her. Where's mr. Reese? Staying out with carter till her date tonight. Good boy. I have had some luck tracing the money He received nine years ago. I thought it came from his uncle. Actually, it came from a shell corporation Out of switzerland, funded by bruce wellington. So there's a connection to the dead girl after all. Look. This is a gps map Of one of murphy's sim cards. He was in the hamptons last week. Same day as dana wellington's funeral. Sicko was probably reliving his crime. Maybe carter can get more info on her date. So what are we having? Don't worry. Nothing with tree nuts. How did you know I was allergic? I pay attention. See, if more guys did that, They'd find the opposite sex less confusing. That's not an answer. You pushed away A little bowl of almonds at the club. Your face said it was out of protection, So, severe nut allergy, hmm? You'd make a good detective. You know, that's funny. I was thinking the same thing about you. What do you mean? The way you were watching everyone in the club. I know your angler profile says you're an officer, ButYou seem more like a detective to me. Well I was a detective. Homicide. But I'm doing something different now. It's not where I thought I would wind up, But it's where I need to be right now. Hmm. Well What's he doing? Should I shoot him? Not yet. What? Sorry. Just shiitake mushrooms. I wasn't making a move. Yet. She doesn't have her guard up. You're joking. That woman's got a guard of steel. You two have thing or something? 'cause, I mean, I clocked you and zoe right off the bat, But I never thought you and carter-- We're just friends. Well, your "just friend" is doing her job. She gets this guy to trust her, Maybe he makes a move. And we can finally shoot him. So what do you do for a living, ian? I own pieces of a bunch of small companies. How did you get started? Help from friends or family? Kinda. I, uh--I been an emancipated minor since I was 17. One day I'm in college, some lawyer shows up With a check for 100 grand. From some uncle I've never met, And all of a sudden I--well, I had these options. Never really had those before. So I started my own business. If I was gonna be alone, I was gonna do it on my own terms. So How long have you and zoe beenSpecial friends? Well, I haven't really counted the days, shaw. What about you? Any big dates lately? Been too buys saving the world from bad guys. Besides, relationships are for amateurs. Guys these days have so manyEmotions. They cry, they wanna be held. I just don't know what to do with them. So you--you're a nun? I'm a pragmatist, john. I go out, have a fun night, or three. And then, uh, I move on, you know? No muss, no fuss. Hmm. Password, please. My hands are a little shaky. Side effect from the thorazine, I suppose. Would you mind typing it in for me? Thank you. Prescription from dr. Ronald carmichael. Desflurane. Two vials, please. No, make it three. You didn't have to walk me out. Well, I didn't want you waiting for a cab all by yourself. I know, you're a cop, but-- But you're a gentleman. I try. I had a really nice time with you tonight, joss. Yeah, I did too. And you know what, you were right. That was the best chilean sea bass I've ever had. Good. Two bogies coming your way, carter. All right. All right, guys. No need for violence, guys. Just, you know, take what you want. Unfortunately for you, ian, We're not here for your wallet. Ready? Ready, ready. Nice aim, shaw. Back at you. Ian, are you okay? I'd be a hell of a lot better If you told me who you actually were, joss. Hey, I got some interesting information From muggers dumb and dumber. I imagine they were hired hands? Bingo. Said a guy by the name of kip davis Hired them. I made a few calls, Found out this guy, davis, Head of security for bruce wellington. And that's certainly not a coincidence. Thank you, detective. I get that, but how did you know That someone was gonna come after me? We had inside information that someone wanted you dead. Or maybe it was the other way around. Wait. W--you th--you think I'd hurt someone? We've seen your stalker stash, ian. It's not stalking. It's research. Women like that I can anticipate their needs. They're used to guys doing the bare minimum. I go above and beyond. Try it sometime. You're hunting them. I want their info, they're giving it to me straight up. And, yeah, I get a little overly efficient in my due diligence, But They like it. If they liked it so much, How come those relationships don't last? They're not supposed to. It's kind of the point. Mr. Murphy, why would bruce wellington want you dead? Were you involved with his daughter? Ian. Tell us what's going on So we can help you. Dana and I We met when she was still in college and I was tending bar, Trying to keep up with my student loans, And we fell in love. No research needed. Mr. Fortune 500 did not appreciate His daughter dating poor white southie trash, ButThen dana got pregnant. Now you gotta understand this. Wellington, he rules that family With an iron fist. So One day one of wellington's lackeys shows up at my door And he tells me that, uh, dana got an abortion, And, uh, he gives me a check, And he says that I have to get out of town Or wellington'll ruin me. So you took the money? Dana was all I had in the world. And I must have called her a hundred times, and she Never called me back. She was terrified of her father. They all were. And that was nine years ago. And I haven't had anything to do with her or her family since. Until you went to her funeral. How could I not go? Wellington saw me And he flipped out and started screaming, Right there at dana's grave. Why would he be so upset with you After all this time? I don't know, joss. I swear. I didn't stay to find out. I like bear's new collar. Seemed more his style. That dinosaur bone from you as well? Yeah, he loves that thing. His intestines beg to differ. Shaw. Take a look at this. Are you both seeing what I'm seeing? That kid's what? Eight? Nine? I suppose we now know why mr. Wellington wants ian dead. Dana didn't have an abortion after all. Daddy probably figured ian showed up at the funeral To take away his heir. I think it's time we meet Mr. Wellington in person. What should detective carter tell ian? The truth. I don't understand. Dana's sister, marissa, raised him as her own. She was ten years older. I imagine she seemed Like a more suitable parent at the time. How could they do this to me? Why would dana lie? Like you said, Mr. Wellington is a very powerful man, Willing to do anything to keep up appearances. Dana knew that a lie Was the only thing that would get you to leave boston. So he gets to take everything from me. My--my home and my--my child? No, ian. He doesn't. Because we're going to set things right. How? Finch is going to break into the kid's locker, Take alex's school-issued water bottle, And use it for the dna test. Sounds like a safe enough plan. I'm going with him. It's not safe, ian. All I wanna do is put eyes on my son, joss. In case I don't get the chance again. Sir? Ms. Morgan. Ms. Morgan. Thank you for meeting with us, mr. Wellington. And how's our mutual friend? She sends her best. This is john wiley, the collector she told you about. Zoe says you're a man who can find things no one else can. She flatters me, but it's also true. I'm looking for a privately owned picasso. Child with dove. I'm willing to pay whatever it takes. Hmm. If you boys will excuse me, I need to powder my nose. Nice entrance. Thanks. Where's the safe? Old school. Excellent. You know, proving the kid is ian's May not get wellington off his back. I'm just the safecracker. I leave the messy stuff to harold. Well, you better hurry up, shaw. Looks like wellington is about to take his grandson On a long trip outside the country. Where are they taking him? Alex has been enrolled at a london boarding school. They leave tomorrow morning. So it's over. Even if we get a dna sample, That won't stop wellington from trying to kill me. It will if we leverage the child's paternity. The wellington legacy is all he cares about. I can assure you, a man like this Will do anything to protect his name. Excuse me for a moment. Black. Kilo. Tango. Penguin. Alpha. Kilo. Stone ranch hospital. Yes, hello. I was calling to check up On ms. Robin farrow. This her uncle, harold wren. Oh, hello, mr. Wren. Robin is doing quite well. Although you're the second person to call on her today. Who was the first? He wouldn't give us a name, So we wouldn't give him any information. Where's joseph? Oh, he, uh, called in sick today. I'm ian. So, um, buckle up. I already did. Mr. Reese. I believe mr. Murphy just kidnapped his son. His birth certificate isn't here. It takes days to run dna. The wellingtons leave the country tomorrow. Reese. You're right, that is a lovely depiction of postmodernism. But, may I ask you something? What's that, mr. Wiley? Where is your grandson's birth certificate? You stole a child from his father. Alex has a father. No. Alex has an aunt and an uncle Who raised him as their own. I'm going to ask you one more time, mr. Wellington. Where is your grandson's birth certificate? My grandson will never know That piece of white trash is his father. Alex is an heir, not the help. Security will show you out. If you weren't gonna do that, I was. Okay. What do we do now? Ian, where are you? I just did something really stupid. I usually go home right after school. Yeah, I thought we could do something different today. Why? What's today? Well, alex, uh I-I knew your mom a long time ago. Well, she gets mad if I come home late. Right. Well, I'm sure she doesn't-- What I meant to say was I knew your aunt dana. Oh. Aunt dana died. Yeah, I know. And I know that makes you really sad. Makes me sad too. To have someone you love just vanish from your life. It's hard to understand, even when you're grown up. How did you know her? From school? Yeah. See? We were good friends. She used to read me stories when I was little. Then I got older and--and she let me read to her. She liked harry potter. I wish I hadn't lost touch with her. I wish I hadMet you a lot sooner. Why? You seem like someone I'd really like to know. Hi, alex. I'm officer carter, here to take you home. But first I need to talk to my friend ian for a minute. Tell you what. Why don't you go buy yourself an ice cream, okay? Okay. I knew it was a stupid move the second I did it, But that's--I just found out that I have a son. Now these people, they wanna just take him Away from me again? I'm not gonna let that happen, ian, But we gotta do this right. Hey. I never told you how much I liked the uniform. Another line? Not even a little. Friend of mine knows people who know people That have dirt on doctors To the rich and famous. I'm about to submit that into evidence. So, are you ready to be a father for real? More than you could possibly know. I'm happy for you. And for alex. Happy enough to celebrate over a drink? Maybe after the dust settles. You still have my number. Yeah. What's different about you tonight, robin? I feel relieved. Like a great weight's been lifted. I'm so pleased to hear that. It sounds like your medication is working. No. It's finally time for me to leave. I see. Okay, robin, the only way you can leave this facility Is with my signature, Which you're not gonna get any time soon. Hmm. You need to start participating In your therapy. It's the only way to get well. I am participating. And it's beenEducational, to say the least, But there's a government operative Who's coming to kill me, Which means you and I have run out of time. Okay, that sounds to me like What we call a persecution complex. Oh, he's quite real, I assure you. So, you see, sadly, I need to be moving on. Okay. So, um, you're going to escape? Hmm. And how do you plan on doing that? First the phone on your desk will ring. She'll be letting me know it's time. Then I'll punch you in the carotid artery. It'll hurt, ronald, but it won't kill you. Then I'll take your car keys. And the guards, how--how will you manage them? I won't have to. They'll be incapacitated from the desflurane In the ventilation system. It vaporizes at 75 degrees. Which the building climate control Has been programmed to reach ten minutes ago. Okay, this voice that you hear, She is--she's gonna do all this? Of course not. She sees everything, But there's very little she can do about it herself. That's where I come in. She tells me what to do and I do it. Well, she did help me a little With stealing the desflurane From the automatic dispensing system. Don't worry. I closed the vents in your office two days ago. It should have cleared out by now. Do you hear how quiet it is out there? Must be almost time. Are you as excited about this as I am? How long are you gonna keep him waiting? He promised to walk me home. Very chivalrous of him. Okay, fine. I should probably get going. Yeah, I need to go too. I have a date. With my son. Nice work tonight, ladies. Good night. What do you think? You wanna get out of here? Okay. But you're sleeping at my place. Hello there. Oh, my god. What have you done? Don't worry. I didn't kill them. Like you said, I've been making progress. The man coming after me, on the other hand, Will almost certainly kill you, so You probably should run. Pardon me. Did you really think she would abandon me? Really? Even this guy? I guess you're the boss. So long, doc. And thanks for all the help. I think I really am much better now. Finch, what's wrong? Mr. Reese, we have a problem.
You are being watched. The government has a secret system-- A machine that spies on you every hour of every day. I designed the machine to detect acts of terror, But it sees everything Violent crimes involving ordinary people. The government considers these people irrelevant. We don't. Hunted by the authorities, we work in secret. You will never find us. But victim or perpetrator, If your number's up, we'll find you. He won't eat. He sleeps all day. When he's not throwing up. Have you changed his food? Just the same high-performance kibble, Plus the occasional table scrap. I never feed him from the table. Lethargy, vomiting, and lack of appetite Could indicate a more serious underlying cause. I'd like to order some additional tests. Whatever he needs. In the meantime, I have some anti-nausea medicine That should ease his symptoms. I'll be right back. I'm sorry, you can't be in here. Neither can they. Give us the ketamine, the doctor lives. Aah! You shouldn't have done that. Aah! Who are you? We're merely a couple of concerned dog owners, Dr. Jensen. I don't know how to thank you. One of those expensive chew toys You have for sale at reception would help. Bear likes his new vet. He's due for vaccinations in a month. It might be nice to visit dr. Jensen When he's not participating in a covert operation. Please, help me. I've lost my husband. I'm out on our boat, on long island sound. And where is your husband? He was here when I fell asleep. We have a new number, mr. Reese. Vanessa watkins. Former prosecutor with the district attorney's office. She's put away some of the city's worst violent offenders, Rapists, murderers, drug traffickers. Married to jeremy watkins, the defense attorney. A prosecutor married to a defense attorney? Cats and dogs, mr. Reese. Jeremy's helped countless alleged criminals Walk on technicalities, But it appears now he's the one in trouble. He's been missing at sea for two days. Coast guard's still looking for him. Maybe an unhappy client came back to haunt him. Got eyes on vanessa, finch. Has a friend with her. Everything is gonna be all right. You don't know that, nicole. Nicole spencer, vanessa's best friend since college. She's consoling her. Finch, vanessa's got another problem. Ms. Watkins. Nypd. You're under arrest for the murder of your husband, Jeremy watkins. Guess jeremy's not missing anymore. Cops think she killed him. Oh, dear. Hands behind your back. Did the machine give us her number too late? No. The machine generated vanessa's number After jeremy's disappearance. The threat is new and imminent. In that case, we need to get ears on her interrogation. Let's go. Vanessa watkins. Never thought I'd see you on that side of the table. You were tough. I liked you. Hell, I even respected you, Till you married that silver-tongued slimeball In the $5,000 suit. I would have thought a seasoned prosecutor like ms. Watkins Would invoke her right to an attorney. It's okay, keep quiet. Your sos call will do the talking for you. Please, help me. I've lost my husband. I'm out on our boat, on long island sound. And where is your husband? He was here when I fell asleep, But I heard a noise, and when I got to the deck, I saw his body floating away. Please, help me. I almost bought your whole "damsel in distress" act. Your husband's blood. You were the only other person on board, So we tested the statement you signed for the coast guard, The one where you swore your husband fell overboard. Know what we found? Gunshot residue. Yeah. You forgot to wash your hands. Money makes people careless. With your husband gone, you got a lot more of it. vacation home in, uh, Wha--what was it again, Tuscany, hmm? Doesn't matter, you're never gonna see it again. Why? 'cause we found the gun, The gun you used to kill jeremy. Witness saw you toss it into the long island sound, So we dragged it. Took a while, but we fished it out. Ask me, you did the world a favor, Ridding it of that scumbag husband of yours. Tell us what really happened. We'll hammer out a deal. Such a damning list of circumstantial evidence. So why are you pressing me for a confession, detective cameron? You don't have a body, do you? You can show my attorney in now. Thanks for coming. I was surprised you asked for me, Considering you once told my boss I was "a unique combination of lazy and ineffectual." The conversation my attorney and I Are about to have will be privileged. I want all cameras removed. The judges are all home with their brandy and cigars, Which means you get to spend the night in lockup. Sorry, detective, we gotta clear the room. Sounds like vanessa shot her husband. She's innocent until proven guilty. Or until her lawyer finds a loophole. Ms. Watkins was smart enough not to ask For her attorney until she'd heard Detective cameron's entire case against her. She knows that, without a body, He needs a confession to bolster his case to the jury. Cameron's trying to keep her in custody until she talks. For a prosecutor, a single night in lockup Could be life-threatening. We need to get her out of there. Yeah? Detective, is vanessa still speaking with her attorney? Vanessa's attorney just left. We need you to get ms. Watkins out of custody. A little late for that. Vanessa knocked her attorney out cold, Took her clothes, and walked right out of here. No wonder she requested sarah ellis. I'd be willing to wager they're similar In age, height, and build. So vanessa's escaped, and she's an alleged murderer. Maybe the machine gave us Her number because she isn't finished. All right, listen up. Domain awareness captured footage of the suspect, Vanessa watkins, buying a bus ticket to philadelphia. The file should be in your inbox now. Our fugitive's bus leaves in less than an hour. She will not be on it because we will stop her! I received the footage. Thank you, detective. Come on. You got the coordinates? Five-block radius on the southwest side of the station. I made a note of every pay phone and atm. Nice work. Thanks. No, you're not listening to me. Like I told you before That's what I tried to tell you. Detective terney seems a little, uh, intense. And advice on how to get along with him? Some people on the force, You're better off keeping your distance. Not sure I get what you mean. You will. Finch, No sign of vanessa at the bus station. I think I might know why. As a prosecutor, ms. Watkins would know The extent of the city's surveillance network. She could have avoided the cameras altogether? That's just it, she doesn't. She looks right at them. She got caught on camera on purpose. She has no intention of getting on that bus. Ms. Watkins has already proven herself Practiced at the art of deception. She's beginning to remind me of you, mr. Reese. Hmm. I'll have ms. Shaw retrace vanessa's steps. Vanessa seems to have picked the pocket of an old man In an orange jacket before she left the station. Have you seen anything that would give you an indication Where she was going? Nope. But the old man from the footage is back. I'm gonna ask him. Excuse me. Did you lose something? A wallet maybe? No. But I did misplace my cell phone. Well, if you give me the number, I know somebody who can track it. There you go. Finch, drug dealers are the only traffic we're seeing out here. You might want to have another look. I'm here to see reverb. Reverb's got a prior engagement. I suggest you move along. Reginald! Can you hear me? Only two people allowed to call me reginald. My moms and the courts. Finch, I'm sending you a photo. Guy's first name is reginald. Reginald "reverb" marshall. Recently released after serving part of a 20-year sentence For murder and drug trafficking. Vanessa put him away. So why is she visiting him now? Thanks for talking to that judge for me, Getting me out. Finch, wanted to let you know. Tip came through. Someone spotted vanessa At a dealer's building in washington heights. I appreciate that update, detective. Detective cameron's instructed us to consider the suspect Armed and dangerous. Is that standard operating procedure? Not when there's no evidence the suspect has a weapon. I knew vanessa. Worked a couple cases together. She was tough. Don't know why, but cameron's determined To bring her in, dead or alive. Reginald just gave vanessa a brick of coke. What's a former prosecutor planning to do With a kilogram of cocaine? Something illegal. Mr. Reese, police are on the way. You and ms. Shaw need to vacate the premises. I'll ask detective carter to run interference. You need me to take care of someone for you, Just call me. Thank you. I want that building cleared, floor by floor, now! Yes, sir! Yeah? I've accessed the provider system For the cellular phone ms. Watkins acquired. Cameron's already spotted her. He's searching the building now. Let me save you some trouble. I was able to turn on the carrier phase tracking And determine the phone's position to within 6 inches. She's at the southwest corner of the roof. The rest of you check the roof! Come with me. I can help you. No one can help me. But I swear, I did not kill my husband. No! Wait! Vanessa told me she didn't kill her husband. Do you think she's innocent? I don't know. But in that moment, I thought she was telling the truth. I guess the former prosecutor doesn't trust the system, then. Think I'd be standing here in a uniform If the system always worked? Detective cameron ordered us To consider vanessa armed and dangerous. Is cameron h.R.? I wondered the same thing, But I asked around, and turns out, Jeremy watkins had a client, alleged murderer. Jeremy made cameron out to be a racist liar on the stand. The defendant walked, and the prosecutor Who let cameron get hung out to dry? Vanessa watkins. Cameron isn't h.R. Catching vanessa and making her pay--it's personal. Thanks. Sorry. Next time, I'll wait in the car. Vanessa would rather jump off a building Than have cameron take her in. Bad guys always run. As do the so-called good guys, When the detective pursuing them wants them dead or alive. I wonder, could ms. Watkins be a victim after all? Off. Good boy. Carter thinks she could be innocent. My money's still on vanessa killing her husband. You want to put it to a bet? How about 100 bucks? We really don't wager on whether our numbers Are victims or perpetrators. You guys have been doing this for how long, And not once did you think to bet on the outcome? Regardless of your rather louche take On what we do here, Ms. Shaw, the question remains, If vanessa didn't kill her husband, Who did, and what has that to do with her present jeopardy? I don't know, but we need to find her. She's disposed of the cell phone we were tracking. Nypd must have frozen her accounts by now. She'll need money. Brick of coke she has could help with that. Do you think ms. Watkins plans to traffic cocaine? If she does, she'll need help. People on the run always make the same mistake, Contact someone they know. Vanessa was with a friend when she was arrested. Nicole spencer. And nicole is hosting a book club today, In spite of vanessa's predicament. Any of these ladies not gonna make it? This mindy is a maybe. Maybe means no. I'll go as her friend. Are you sure you'll fit in? Of course. I have a secret weapon. I'm here for book club. I'm mindy's friend, carmen. Uh, mindy couldn't make it this week. And we actually have a friend Who's going through a rough time. Oh, that's a shame. I don't know what I'll do with all this chardonnay. Jeremy was a pit bull in court, but he doted on vanessa, Gave her anything she wanted. Who would have thought she was so unhappy? Wealthy, charismatic, good looks to match? A man like that is hard to pin down. Olivia, please. Let's not make mindy's friend think we're just here to gossip. Where's your powder room? Oh. Do I dare ask how the book club is going? Bunch of pseudo-intellectual glorified trophy wives. Okay, so I ducked out, Logged in to nicole's bank account. She is not sneaking money to vanessa. Has vanessa made contact? Take a look. We're up on nicole's phone. Doesn't appear that ms. Watkins Has reached out to her best friend. The majority of the texts I see are from a male friend, And they're of rather a graphic nature. Nicole's got a boyfriend? Yes, named "hot stuff." Oh, dear. Nabokov faced some unique challenges Writing so honestly about forbidden love. Speaking of forbidden love, Did you frame vanessa for jeremy's murder Because you were sleeping with him? Uh-- sorry. Not jeremy. "hot stuff." I didn't--I-- Up to me, I'd shoot your sorry ass. Unfortunately, it's not, So I have to protect you, because your best friend Might be on her way here to kill you. Now What's this book about? I took another look at vanessa's file. The evidence just wasn't sitting right with me. How so? The g.S.R. On vanessa's hands. Forensics found trace amounts all over the deck, But the largest concentration? On vanessa's cosmetics. So either vanessa shot her husband And then put on eye shadow Or the gunshot residue was planted. What's the name of the witness Who helped the police find the gun? Scott rawlins. He works at the marina where the watkins kept their yacht. I'll have a talk with him. Nice boat. Even for people with a place in tuscany. Who was that man in washington heights, In the suit? Look, we're adults. I don't have to know everything about you, You don't have to know everything about me. Well, I think it's good you're moving on. Excuse me? From beecher. Good for you for seeing someone new. Yeah. Thanks. I got a fiancee myself. Course, she'd rather elope. Well, me, I want the blow-out party, All my friends and family there. Your fiancee, she from a big family? No, she's not real close to her folks. Probably why she doesn't want the big party. Huh. Thanks, carter. No problem. Did you talk to your contact at interpol? The yacht the watkins owned-- Valued at 5 mil, but get this. It's leveraged to the hilt And about to be repossessed by the lender, A shell corporation that belongs to a mobster. Jeremy watkins owed a mobster $5 million? At least. All of jeremy's accounts were in the red, Except for one, A charity by the name of "innocence now." Where is this account based, detective? Greenwich, connecticut. I guess I'm going to greenwich. If you wouldn't mind. I'm sure ms. Shaw has had Enough chardonnay and nabokov for one afternoon. I'll have her join you. Mr. Reese, jeremy watkins was deeply in debt To an organized crime affiliate. It's entirely possible that they killed jeremy. If they knew he would never pay, They could have killed him to send a message to vanessa. Yes, "pay up or else!" Ms. Watkins is beginning to look More and more like a victim, Although I can't explain why a victim would procure Such a large amount of cocaine. I think I can. I just found the witness against vanessa. Scott rawlins. Perhaps he dumped the gun that killed jeremy. Were you able to ask him about the planted evidence? No, because someone just planted evidence on him. Finch, the cops just arrested Scott rawlins for possession with intent to sell. Had a brick of cocaine identical To the one reginald gave vanessa. She planted drugs on the witness against her to discredit him. Exactly what I would have done. In that case, I still can't speak To whether she's a victim or a perpetrator. But vanessa can. She stuck around to admire her own work. Frame a man up, then steal his car to get away. You're good, vanessa. We need to talk. I just spoke to mr. Reese. They're 15 minutes away. Are you sure this is a good idea? It seems to me, the best way to start Would be to ascertain ms. Watkins' Guilt or innocence in the death of her husband. From there, we can attempt To figure out the current situation. Ms. Shaw were here, she'd be willing to wager Double or nothing that vanessa's the threat. So vanessa's guilty, we turn her over To a corrupt cop who might be trying to kill her? And if she's innocent, we let her go free, At which point, she may still be trying to kill somebody. We need to figure out which flawed plan is best. I can help with that. Oh! What the hell is going on? Who are you people? As of this moment, ms. Watkins, We are your judge and jury. You're here to make your argument. I can name at least three felonies you're committing. Kidnapping, unlawful imprisonment, coercion! Why should I make my argument to you? Because if we decide that you're innocent Of your husband's murder, We can provide you with an alternate identity And a fresh start in a new city. If you're guilty, we turn you over to the nypd. I remember you. You worked homicide. Nypd is full of dirty cops. Don't have to tell me that. But I don't think you're one of them. So this trial you want to have I'm game. Surveillance footage clocked our fugitive Getting into this suv approximately 80 minutes ago. She's got a friend, male. Appears to be wearing a suit. Plate readers are on the lookout for the car. Set up a perimeter around the marina. Close off the bridges. Find anyone who's seen them, Talked to them, thought about them, now! Your husband's blood on the deck, G.S.R. On your hands-- And on my cosmetics. You read the police report. I swiped a copy from cameron's desk On my way out of the station. Wouldn't you? Probably. My husband wasn't murdered. He drowned. Someone planted that evidence and framed me. Prove it. I'm the defense. Burden of proof lies with you. You can object. Fine, I object. Overruled. I found this in scott rawlins' locker. When you planted the drugs? Yes. $50,000. A marina guard doesn't make that in a year. Someone paid him to plant the evidence, Tell the police where to find that gun. The same person who is framing me. You have no chain of custody for that money. It could have come from anywhere. Wh-- You used to put bad guys away. Then you married a defense attorney, One notorious for helping murderers walk. Why'd you switch sides like that? Was it the money? My first murder trial, I was a wreck. Rehearsing every night in the mirror, Picturing the jury in their underwear, All the old tricks. I was winning Until the defendant hired new counsel. Jeremy. He trounced me. But he was kind afterwards. Told me I had grit. He wouldn't have let cameron hunt me down like this. Jeremy would have protected me. He wasn't protecting you when he ran up All that debt to a mobster. But now that he's dead, That life insurance policy will wipe out all his debt, And you'll finally be in the black. Jeremy and I had a living trust. That agreement stipulates that If he died under suspicious circumstances, I wouldn't see a penny, And I won't. Everything is going to our charity. Innocence now. Are you a cosigner on that account, ms. Watkins? I might be. I-I don't know. Jeremy took care of all the paperwork. If jeremy took care of all the paperwork, How did you know about the debt? I found a threatening note on my car, A few nights before jeremy died. We were supposed to be having a romantic dinner, But I confronted jeremy on the yacht. We argued. I went below deck to just clear my head. When I came back up, jeremy was gone. The last thing I said to my husband was I was sorry that we ever got married. But I didn't mean it, And I didn't kill him. You have to believe me. Uh, what was the account name again? Innocence now. Oh. That's not my password, now is it? Yeah. Detective, would you be able to tell me if ms. Watkins Is a cosigner on the innocence now account? Not yet. They do things a little slow here in greenwich. Oh, that's not good. The little wheel's spinning. I'll just, uh, restart. I gotta go. Even for you, stabbing a senior would be a new low. You don't know that. Oh, uh The innocence now account had a balance Of just over $20 million yesterday, But it was transferred into an external account this morning, By the cosigner. You got a copy of this cosigner's id? Your husband was having an affair. Even without the money, you had motive. In most cases, I'd agree with you. Why not in this one? Because I had an affair too. Ms. Watkins, we found No evidence that would confirm that statement. I have a second email. His name was colin. He was a doctor. But I-I broke it off with him. Email correspondence appears to corroborate your story. Jeremy and I were struggling this past year. He was busy with work, he had a purpose, And I was lost. I wasn't the person he married. I knew he'd found Other women, but enough was enough. I-I broke it off with the doctor. Jeremy swore he was through with his indiscretions. We--we were on the yacht To rekindle our relationship. So you thought one romantic dinner On a yacht would fix your problems? No, but We had to start somewhere. Look me in the eye, and tell me you loved him. Tell me you didn't want to tear his face off. Do I look angry to you? I loved jeremy. I still do. Even though we has having an affair with your best friend? He--what? Even I might consider that justifiable homicide. I-I don't understand. I-- Nicole would never do that. Jeremy would never do that. I'm sorry, vanessa, but he did. Plate readers caught the 10-16. Give me a ten-block radius. Show any potential witness the bolos. We found the vehicle, let's find the suspects, now! All units, all units. Suspect vehicle found at 58th and 8th. They found the car. We need to decide what to do with ms. Watkins, soon. The evidence against her was planted. She dismissed any financial motive. And nicole and jeremy's affair was news to her. I don't think she killed her husband. I'm inclined to agree. Reasonable doubt in this case abounds. Should we put it to a final vote? Go ahead. Innocence now account was cleaned out this morning. By vanessa? No, the cosigner, henry shain. We're sending a photo now. Henry shain is jeremy watkins. Vanessa didn't kill jeremy. Because jeremy is still alive. How can jeremy be alive? I saw his body in the water! It's easy to make that mistake at night. He faked his death. HeFramed me. Despite the unfortunate circumstances, It does prove your innocence, But you're also the only person standing Between your husband and his new life. I could put jeremy behind bars. You're a loose end, And we believe jeremy might come after you next. We need to get you out of town. All units, proceed to the southeast corner Of 56th and 6th. They're entering the building. Nypd! Open up! Vanessa, time to go. Come on. Hands up! Nobody move! Yo, keep 'em up. What the hell? Who gave us this intel? Someone called in a tip. A mr. Swan. 10-2, report back to base, now. Any idea how the police ended up on the wrong side of town? Ms. Morgan gave me a tip regarding An underground gambling ring. I just wanted to make sure The police discovered and stopped it. So you left the suv they were looking for near the building. Of course I didn't. Mr. Reese took care of that. I was merely doing my civic duty. Are you okay? I don't know. You're leaving your life behind. That's a scary thing. Have you ever had to start over Because someone was trying to kill you? You could say that. Come here. Jeremy wants me dead. He'll find me. Vanessa, you're smart. You're strong. If I were jeremy, I'd know better than to come after you. I don't know if I'll ever feel safe. All right. Maybe this will help. It's loaded. Thank you. For everything. You're welcome. Your, um, bus leaves soon. Yeah. Don't want to miss it. I appreciate you letting me eavesdrop. No problem. My lunch hour is over, though. Better get back before cameron turns the troopsOn me. Something wrong, detective? Most people think that sweaty palms or an increased heart rate Are the only involuntary responses your body gives When you lie. They would be wrong. Her husband tried to frame her for his murder. Can't blame her for being angry. Except she tore that picture Before she knew he was still alive And before she knew about the affair with nicole, When she told me she loved him. Maybe she did love him. I've taken the liberty of revisiting the h-said database. Henry shain didn't obtain his own passport To leave the country. His wife did it for him, And she procured one for herself too. Jeremy wasn't the only one with a false passport. Vanessa made that sos call to the coast guard. She helped jeremy fake his death. Vanessa's been in on the plot from the beginning. She and jeremy planned to empty out the accounts Of their so-called charity and run away with the spoils. Until he double-crossed her And framed her for his own murder. Jeremy deceived vanessa, and vanessa deceived us. Mr. Reese, vanessa was lying When she said she loved her husband. She helped him fake his death. Are you still with her? She's boarding her bus. Are you sure? Vanessa's not on the bus, finch. She's gone. She knows her husband is still alive And that he framed her for his murder. She despises him. She's gonna kill him. Vanessa's been the perpetrator all along. She's been plotting her husband's murder Since he framed her. Which means her crime is premeditated. And I gave her a weapon. You what? Seemed like a good idea at the time. We find jeremy, we find her. He needs to get out of new york. I know one mode of transportation No one's checking. Anything to report? I think my new partner is starting to trust me. And I saw her boyfriend. Maybe you know him. Nicole, I'm home! Expecting someone else? No, no, no, I just, um-- Hey, what took you so long? You were supposed to meet me yesterday. But today's better. Cops just released the crime scene. We are free to go. You duplicitous son of a bitch. This is all a misunderstanding. I mean, you know I still love you, right, angel? Now, come on. We can make this work. Get out of new york. Ditch the boat. Make a new life. Hard to save your marriage After you frame your wife for murder. Who the hell are you? A concerned third party. Well, so happy that you found someone else, angel. Truly. Good for you. He's not my "someone else." He's just someone I can't get rid of. Oh, come on, we both knew that Our marriage was just a contract. Not to me it wasn't. I thought you meant it when you told me we could disappear, Get out from under the debt, make a new home, Make a new life for us. Just us. I helped you fake your death, Swore to the coast guard I'd seen your body disappear So they could declare you dead, just like we planned. Until you framed me And robbed our charity. To what? Run off with nicole? Maybe you're right, that our marriage is just a contract, But if that's true, you owe me. Well, look at you. So angry, bitter. And you used to be so beautiful. You led the police to believe I shot you on a yacht, Then threw your body overboard. Who can blame me for doing what everyone says I already did? Do something. You framed your own wife for murder. You deceived me to kill your own husband. I'm in the business of stopping bad things from happening. I'm not so sure what's about to happen is a bad thing. Mr. Reese, how's ms. Watkins? Don't know. But you might want to call the coast guard. And you owe shaw
You are being watched. The government has a secret system-- A machine that spies on you every hour of every day. I designed the machine to detect acts of terror, But it sees everything Violent crimes involving ordinary people. The government considers these people irrelevant. We don't. Hunted by the authorities, we work in secret. You will never find us. But victim or perpetrator, If your number's up, we'll find you. Open the door! That's a human liver. We have to get that to city general. A patient's life depends on it. Our boss's life depends on it more. Drop the gun, Or your friend is gonna get it. Here's your liver. Look, belinda, or whatever your name is You just saved my life. How can I ever possibly-- Ugh. All done here, finch. Not to be a stickler about etiquette, ms. Shaw, But I believe that mr. Mathers was In the midst of thanking you. You paid me to save him, not listen to him talk. And while your combat skills are impressive, Your bedside manner still leaves A little something to be desired. I was thinking you might stop by, And we could discuss it over a nice cup of tea. Well, as fun as that sounds, finch, I'll pass. I don't like meeting Out in the open like this, yogorov. Relax, simmons. This place was on the map you gave us. You see any cameras? So, terney? Yeah. What's the status on our joint operation? Everything's in place. Our part's good to go. We just need you to arrange the meeting. No problem. We'll get all the players in one room. One very secure room. If our boss is gonna be involved, This has gotta be airtight. John One of these days, I'm just gonna shoot you. I get that a lot. Busted, huh? Finch and I have known about your side project for a while. From what we've seen, You've got enough to bring down Half the organization. You could bust them, Make deals to take down the rest. Special agent donnelly tried that. But hr rebuilt itself from ashes 'cause we didn't cut off the head. If we had, Cal might still be alive. I'm playing by different rules now. No deals. And I won't make a move until I can bring down the boss. They're running some joint operation with the russians. If I can just get eyes on that meeting, I might finally I.D. The head of hr. Need help? No. But if I do, you'll be my first call. Finch, I thought you said we had a new number. We do, But this one doesn't match Any social security number on record. The nine digits in question are A uscis alien registration number. Green card number. We're looking for an immigrant. Specifically, ms. Genrika zhirova Of solntsevo, russia. Information on ms. Zhirova is a little hard to come by. She has virtually no digital footprint. All I have so far is a last known address. It's a housing project in the south bronx. I can't even find a photo of the woman. Then let's go have a look at her. Agent stone, immigration and customs. I'm looking for genrika zhirova. Genrika! No eyes on the target yet, but I see drugs at her place. Could have something to do with why we're here. Rough neighborhood. Whatever this woman's into, I got a feeling it's gonna get messy. Can I help you? Y-you're genrika? Gen. Nobody calls me genrika. Are your parents here? My mom's in prison in russia. I never knew my dad. I came here a few years ago to live with my grandfather. And where is he? Cemetery. He died eight months ago. Shouldn't you guys already know this stuff? So now you live with, um Vadim. We're, like, third cousins or something. He's supposed to be taking care of me now. Which means he gets an extra 200 a month And a free place to live. They should pay me twice that to put up with her. Always sneaking around, taking pictures. Crazy little girl thinks she's a spy. I'm just practicing for my career. Career doing what? International espionage. What's this about? Just a routine check. Routine, my ass. Is there a problem with my immigration status? No. I-- Why'd they send you? Agent cross normally handles my case. There is no agent cross. Look, uh, do you need any help here? I'm fine, but you're making me late for school. Ms. Shaw's conversation with ms. Zhirova Was, if not harmonious, at least illuminating. Four years ago, her mother was in prison For protesting the putin administration. So her grandfather brought gen here To live with him. Now she's all alone. Not exactly the safest place for a kid. And cousin vadim's no suzy homemaker. Well, whatever's going on I doubt this girl's the perpetrator. I wouldn't be surprised If the recent changes in her circumstances Have something to do with the threat. Perhaps, ms. Shaw, had you been A touch more solicitous when asking her If she needed help What? I asked, she said no. If you ask me, the kid can take care of her-- Is everything all right? You're not gonna believe this, finch. Shaw just got made by a ten-year-old. What kind of a weird-ass kid Uses countersurveillance tactics? I got it from here. But I think you freaked her out a little. It's mutual. I'll recon her building. Mr. Reese, We need to have a talk about ms. Shaw. Uh Don't worry, I've got us up on a private line. Look, it won't do to save this little girl's life Only to have her scared to death by ms. Shaw. Perhaps it would be best if we kept her at arm's length From ms. Zhirova. Fine with me, I hate kids. Ms. Shaw? What, finch? You think I didn't bug your office? We've got trouble, finch. Hey! Get her! Whoever this girl is, finch, She has a very grown-up problem. Come on. 911 emergency. I just saw an accident. A tire blew, and the driver lost control. Please send someone. I need an e.T.A. On that bus! And get a back brace ready, just in case! The top's completely collapsed. I'll try to get to the driver. Driver's d.O.A. Hello? I've got a 10-45. Someone's alive in there. I can't see 'em. I'll check the other side. Hey, there. Are you hurt? I don't think so. Is my dad okay? What's your name, sweetheart? Sameen. Okay, sameen, hang on, kiddo. I'm coming to you, okay? Well, finch, So much for keeping me away from the kid. Ms. Zhirova. Is she safe? For now. But I don't think our tangos have given up. Me either. What's your 20? Sub-basement. A few floors down. Hold your position. I'm on my way. Any idea what this is about? Do you know who those men were Or why they tried to grab you? Probably because I'm a spy. She doesn't know. So we have no idea who's after her? The guy giving orders had a tremor in his hand. Could be parkinson's. It's a rare enough condition. It might help us to identify him. All right, john, I'll meet you at the northeast corner. No. Please stay put, ms. Shaw. Mr. Reese will come to you. Your job is to protect ms. Zhirova at all costs. Sir, yes, sir. I thought you might be a robot. No hits for parkinson's in the database, But if you're looking for bad guys, You've gone to the right place. Your girl lives in an impact zone. Well, that doesn't sound good. Her address is in a blind spot Where funding for domain awareness ran out. Criminals like to go where the cameras aren't. No sign of our friend in the suit. But she's on another one of her secret calls. Definitely up to something. Find out what. Gotta go. Carter, where were you last night? A bunch of us went out for drinks. I left you a message. New gun, laskey? Like it? I just bought it last weekend. Gun show in jersey. So you brought it across state lines illegally? You do know that every gun in new york Has to have a ballistics test on file, right? Nice. You guys have the girl yet? We're closing in, but she has help. What's your name? Not important. Well, who are you? Why are you here? How'd you know I was gonna be in trouble? How's it going, john? Still clearing our extraction route, Same as I was two minutes ago. Who's john? Is he your friend? Is he your boyfriend? No. He's a coworker. "coworker." so this is your job? What are you? Like, spec ops or something? Oh, man! What agency do you work for? Cia? Nsa? Inscom? Why would a big agency like that care what happens to me? We're not a big agency. Why would a small agency care what happens to me? We're not any agency. We're just a I don't even know what we are. To be honest, I'm only in it for the dog. You guys have a dog? No sign of 'em here. Shh. Clear. Check the next room. I got eyes on two tangos, finch. I'm taking 'em out. Absolutely not! If anything happened to you, Ms. Zhirova would be defenseless. Let mr. Reese worry about the kidnappers. You just get the girl out of there. Now. Shh. We can handle it. All right. Come on. There they are! Run! Let's move! This way. It's okay. I'm in here all the time. My listening station. We should be safe here. You did all this? Told you I was a spy. But I didn't do this. Finch. I think I might know what this is all about. Gen has this whole building wired, And it looks like someone found out what she was up to. Any idea who? Did any of the people you ever recorded Talk about committing any crimes? Lots of them. I bugged anyone who looked suspicious. Did it ever occur to you That that might have been a really bad idea? I was just trying to get the drug dealers Out of my building. Did you give the tapes to anyone? Not yet. New york's just like russia-- you can't trust the cops. I was waiting till I had something on the dealers That was too big to ignore. Yeah, they're not ignoring you, kid. Well, I know that now. So where are the tapes? Somewhere safe. Hey. I'm a spy too, remember? Got a location on the tapes, finch. You're gonna wanna write this down. Clear. Hey. We got rats in the walls, but I got a plan. Get the masks from the trunk. Let's go! You all right? I'm fine. I'm shaw. Nice to meet you. Where'd you learn how to do that? My grandfather taught me. He was in the kgb. Gave me this too. Order of lenin. I wear it everywhere I go. You should sell it. Probably worth a lot of money. What's wrong with you? I mean, why are you Like this? You know that thing that made you flinch? I don't get that. You don't get scared? Or sad. Or happy or lonely. I do angry okay, but That's about it. Did something happen? Been this way as long as I can remember. I was, uh About your age When I figured out I was different. What's that? R-22. They must have punctured the pipes For the building's a.C. We'll be dizzy in 10 seconds, Unconscious in 40. What happens after that? You don't wanna know. Come on. Shaw! No! Shaw! Hey, so talk to me, sameen. You like tv? What's your favorite show? I don't have one. They're different everywhere you go. Oh, you move around a lot? Yeah. My dad's in the military. He likes tv. We watch football together. We'll you're being a trooper just like him. We're gonna call your mom, okay? And she's gonna come and take care of you. Ready to get outta here? We got the kid. Take out the trash. Oh! Maybe clean out your trunk next time, dumbass. Do you have her? No, we were hoping that you had. But I'm glad to know you're still alive. That makes one of us. Any clue where they took her? We're working on it. Bear could only track ms. Zhirova-- Gen. Her name is gen. He could only track gen as far as the street. She could be anywhere in the city by now. The guy who kidnapped me Isn't talking. But, uh, I got his cell. It might lead us to the guy with the tremor. Give me his location. I'll handle the rest. Bear found blood, shaw. A lot of it. And he seems to think it's yours. I'm fine. I'm sending you the address Of a doctor who owes us a favor. John can track the man with the tremors. And I think I finally have the means To determine why she was abducted. I've recovered gen's tapes right where she said they were. A girl after my own heart. I know this went sideways, finch. But you can't bench me for every mistake. I'm not punishing you for an error. I'm protecting you because you're hurt. You've done enough, ms. Shaw. We'll take it from here. What are we doing here? This is way off our beat. Lunch. You're welcome. Come on. Do you really wanna wait in that line for a taco? No, I want you to wait for two tacos, Extra bulgogi, and some kimchi slaw. Plus whatever you want. Any problems, you call me. We clear? Joint operation's on schedule. Good. The package has been delivered. Pay the man. Hey. Look, something came up. Take the car and cover for me. I'll make my way back to the precinct. Lost my appetite. No, man. It's your turn to call for pizza, man. I don't wanna call-- Read the labels, harold. Ms. Shaw, everything all right? Do you know who took gen? Not yet. But I can't help noticing That you are nowhere near the doctor That I recommended. In fact, you seem to be You wanna tell me why you're holding the same junk As the guys who took gen? Sit down, vadim. Got a little something for you. Mmm, good, huh? It'd be a shame to see it all go to waste. Now I can either re-up your stash, Or I can flush it all. Stupid kid. Bugging people's rooms. They sweep for transmitters. Who uses wires anymore? But they find the wire, then they find recorders. Then they find me. You told them about gen? They knew already. They give me this. They tell me to find the tapes And not to report it if she went missing. Who? Bratva. The--the russians. I don't know if you realize, but you're asking a lot. I don't know if you realize, but I'm not asking. Finch, I'm closing in on the kidnapper's cell. I don't know if you realize, but I'm not asking. Most accidents don't require a shovel. Most accidents don't require a shovel. That's my guy. Paying my guy. Finch, I know who has the girl. So do I, mr. Reese. Didn't anyone ever tell you it's not polite To spy on people, little girl? Hmm? Now Where are the tapes? So we called your mom, okay, sameen? She's coming right now. Where's my dad? Is he stuck in the car too? Sweetheart, it was a really bad accident. Your dad got hurt. Then why are you with me? You should be taking care of him. Yeah, I wish I could, sweetie. But sometimes people get hurt so bad That they fall asleep, And they don't wake up. You mean he's dead? Look, I'm so sorry, sameen. If there was anything I could have done I'm hungry. Can I have a sandwich? Ms. Shaw, you're still not at the doctor. I must insist that you Finch, carter knows how hr found gen. They ran her fingerprints. Every legal immigrant gets fingerprinted When they enter the country. That still doesn't explain exactly what she has on hr. How's our friend with the tremor? Awake, but not exactly a chatterbox. Perhaps we should let mr. Yogorov And detective simmons do the talking. What kind of joint operation? One in our mutual interest. My boss wants your people To stop moving the old product and try something new. They ever say what the product is? No, but one of your pictures May turn out to be worth a thousand words. The tanker that you spotted Bears a chemical formula on the side. Kmno4. Potassium permanganate. Commonly used in water treatment, But also a key ingredient in a dangerous new class of drugs: Synthetic cathinones. Otherwise known as bath salts. So basically, hr's dealing drugs. Perhaps not simply dealing. The drug may be intoxicating, But pure potassium permanganate is just toxic. Exposure produces symptoms similar to parkinson's. Our new friend isn't sick. He's been cooking designer drugs for hr. Thank you, finch. Nitroglycerin. It's highly unstable. The slightest shock could set it off. Drop it, and it'll blow your knees off. I'd hold steady if I were you. So you've been making drugs for hr. Where do the russians come in? Hr makes the stuff, the russians move it. They called in a big meeting. With the head of hr? The top dealers in town. Hr wants the russians to lay down the law, Force 'em to stop selling coke, "h," whatever, Start selling salts. You get all that, finch? Yes, and I've found something in one of gen's recordings That confirms it. Screw the columbians. This stuff is made right here in the u.S. Of a. All right, we've got a massive facility. City gets hooked, we all get rich. So where's the cook site? I only helped with the first batch, But a pipe burst. I got hosed with whatever did this to me. After that, they moved-- someplace bigger. Please. That's all I know. Hmm. And I believe you. Hey. Hey! You can't just leave me here! So hr is tailoring crime in the city to fit their needs, And we've got the tapes to prove it to the dea. Look, carter, I know you said no deals. Of course we trade the tapes for the girl. Are we really gonna leave him like that? Relax. It's just corn syrup. We got a 911 call. Someone's having a heart attack? Sorry, we're required to check. If you'd just let us in What was that ambulance doing out front? Where's the girl? That's hr's deal. The cops might kill a kid. My people have standards. You know where they make this stuff? I just handle distribution. Ever try it? Hell no. My body's a temple. Have you left the country in the last six months? No. Ever had unprotected sex? Why? You offering? No. Ever had hepatitis, malaria, chagas disease, or babesiosis? No. What the hell is this about? I need blood. So I'm taking yours. You don't even know my blood type. I'm a.B. Positive. Universal recipient. Get hr on the phone. Someone wants to talk with you. Put the girl on the phone, Or I paint the walls with yogorov's brains. Shaw, is that you? Hang on, kiddo. I'm coming for you. Okay. Let's talk terms. I'm copying the hr tapes. But I have hours of analog audio And no way to speed up the process. Gen doesn't have hours, finch. We need to tell hr we're willing to trade the tapes for-- Way ahead of you, john. You hired me to save gen, not bust dirty cops. So unless you got a better idea, harold, I'm gonna need those tapes. We got a problem, carter. Shaw took the tapes. She's meeting simmons on randall's island To trade them for the girl. But I'll be there to change the odds. Need help? If I do, you'll be my first call. I got eyes on her. Her pal in the suit knows about the meet. You're walking into an ambush. No, he is. You guys are with me. Carter, there you are. Look. I need to talk to you about something. Yeah, we can talk all day tomorrow. Hey, come on, carter. I covered for you with the sarge. And I need your advice. I'm having a problem. With somebody on the job. All right, what is it? Hey, not here. I know a bar nearby. All right, we're about to get the tapes And the man in the suit. Showtime, people. Prepare to fire on my order. Acknowledge. Acknowledge, one. Acknowledge, two. Where is everybody? Officer I'd like to report a kidnapping. You win. Take her. The girl's not here. Neither are the tapes. Looks like you got bad intel. Not a total loss. It's about time you and I had a little talk. Gotta hand it to you, finch. This was a better idea. Carter said detective terney was involved In the joint operation, so it seemed reasonable To assume that his gps signal might lead us to the lab. Just tell me which way to go. Right. I hope. There are hundreds of us, you know. You really think you can win? Armies fall One soldier at a time. You ready to get out of here? Mm-hmm. Hey, finch, How much you know about chemistry? Enough. Two beers, jerry. On me. How you doing, jer? You gonna join me? So what's the problem, laskey? Well, for starters, My own partner won't even have a drink with me. So you're having a problem with someone at work. Who? You. I mean, what's going on? I'm supposed to have your back, But how can I help you if you don't even talk to me? I'm fine. Like hell you are. With the secret phone calls in the night, Ducking out in the middle of a shift, Hush-hush meetings with some man in a suit. Who is he, anyway? 'cause I don't think he's your boyfriend. Why are you so curious? Is it maybe because of this? I know, laskey. I've known from the second your ass landed in my car. Do you have any idea what it's like? What what's like? Riding around all day With an arrogant bitch who doesn't know her place. They spared your life, But you keep pushing. And now your pal in the suit is gonna pay the price. Trust me, he is not the one you should be worried about. See, you just played simmons for us. We fed you bad info, And you got simmons and his men away from the girl. You know, when they, uh, assigned me to you, They told me to play the dumb rookie, See what I could find out. But simmons gave me the authority To pull your card anytime I want. What ya think, jerry? Should I earn myself a new partner? You don't even know who you are yet, son. Do you? But you wanna play billy badass? You go right ahead. But I spent enough time with you to know you're afraid of me. That's why you have your idiot friend here for backup. I know you, laskey. Just like I know jerry back there Is a lieutenant in bronx vice Who paid for this bar with dirty cash From shaking down hookers. And I have the proof to put him away for it. Now I was gonna wait and arrest you two With everyone else. But if this is how you wanna play it, little man, Guess I'll have to take you down right now. You both can go easy Or it can be hard. They should've killed you, you stupid bit-- Put the gun down. Put it down! Sit down. Now we gotta figure this out. Figure this out? You just killed him. No. You did. Registered to you in the state of new jersey. All I gotta do is submit it for ballistics. But I'm not gonna do that. Not yet. You don't work for hr anymore, son. You work for me now. Never seen anything like it. I told her the news, and she understood, but I don't know. I think there's something wrong with the kid. What if I don't like it? You lived with vadim, you can live anywhere. And it's supposed to be one of the top schools in the world. Not every kid gets to become The ward of a reclusive billionaire. Now if you're ever in trouble again, Call this number. Don't sell it, okay? I know it won't mean much to you, But it'll mean a lot to me that you have it. I'm just not wired for this kind of stuff, kid. I know. I figured you out. It's not that you don't have feelings. It's just like The volume is turned way down. Like the sound on an old tape. The voices are there. You just have to listen. Bye, shaw. You're hurting me. So I, uh, disobeyed some Pretty much all Of your orders. Am I fired? On the contrary, ms. Shaw. I think you finally got the job. Now about that bug in my library Haven't found it yet, have you? Did you miss me? We're gonna have so much fun together.
You are being watched. The government has a secret system, A machine that spies on you every hour of every day. I designed the machine to detect acts of terror, But it sees everything Violent crimes involving ordinary people. The government considers these people irrelevant. We don't. Hunted by the authorities, we work in secret. You will never find us. But victim or perpetrator, If your number's up, we'll find you. Did you miss me? We're gonna have so much fun together. He's digging around, getting way too close. Should we silence him? We can't let him jeopardize our operation. Put it to a vote. I'm in, finch. Care to tell me where? The apartment you're in belongs to ms. Shaw. I promised to respect her boundaries, But for eight hours, our agreed-upon means of contact Have gone unanswered. So you tracked her down. Ms. Shaw may be violent and uncommunicative, But she is never tardy. Something is amiss, and I need you to find out what. So what are you up to? My waist approximately. Don't be so delicate, harold. I need you to get in there and dig. See, people, they put business cards in dirty clothes, Jot phone numbers on napkins. A single relative's name is all we need. Oh. Watch out for rats. Rats? As you may have guessed, We have a new number: Timothy sloan, An estate investigator for the new york public administrator. If somebody dies without an apparent next of kin Like the compulsive hoarder who used to live here, They send in sloan to find one. So when somebody dies, Sloan figures out who gets their stuff. Exactly. I'm undercover as his new partner. Finch, you know I don't like you heading Into danger without me. I'm not so thrilled about my current circumstances either, But I need you where you are. Speaking of which, have you found anything? Nothing unexpected. Raymond chandler. I grew up reading this stuff. I always dreamed about becoming a detective. Did you try the police academy? Turns out they're not crazy About hiring someone who can't shoot straight. You check the fridge yet? For a next of kin? You'd be surprised what pops up Behind moldy leftovers. Oh. Nothing in here but old milk, An enormous quantity of something that used to be pasta, And--oh, wait. What'd I tell you? The cooler temperatures keep the film from fading. Jackpot. See for yourself. Marcia the hoarder has a sister. Which means we have an heir. Good work, harold. Our job here is done. Mr. Reese, I have to leave now. We found what we needed. Unfortunately, so did I. Taser confetti, Ejected whenever one is fired. I suppose it's too much to hope she tased herself. Knowing shaw, it's possible. But if I had to guess, I'd say she's in trouble. Sorry about that. Which part: The tasing, the drugging, Or whatever this is? Hmm. I had to make sure you'd hear me out. She needs our help, And I figured You wouldn't come willingly. She? The machine's given me a mission, And step one is to team up with you. I'll pass. Trust issues. Besides, the machine gives missions to harold And the government-- relevant, irrelevant. Why would it be talking to you? Because now, there's a third category. Things are evolving. And my relationship with the machine Is a little different. As for trust issues, I'm happy to take the first step. There's a gun for you in the glove compartment. Thanks, but a knife will do just fine. This is the part where you give me one good reason Why I should believe anything you say. October 2, 1988. You took a road trip with your father To watch the houston oilers play the philadelphia eagles. He bought you a sweatshirt-- don't talk about my father. It told you that? The machine trusts me, Even if you don't. You spent years working for the machine, And she was never wrong. If you don't help me, Someone might destroy her, And innocent people will die. Forget how you feel about me. How would you feel about that? Okay. I'll forget how I feel about you. But when this is over, You better hope I don't remember. Good evening, mr. Reese. Staying out of trouble, finch? For the moment, although I'm not sure Our mr. Sloan could say the same. I hacked into his office network To see what he's up to. It appears our estate investigator Has taken an unorthodox interest In a case that isn't his. Jason greenfield, died two weeks ago Of an apparent heroin overdose, no next of kin. How is sloan's interest unorthodox? Would going to a dead man's apartment alone In the middle of the night qualify? Any progress in finding ms. Shaw? Her building doesn't have cameras, But the one across the street does. And they agreed to let you see the footage? After some convincing and a sleeper hold. Point is I found out who took shaw, And you're not gonna like it. Find them, mr. Reese. Now. Why the hell are you following me? Contrary to the saying, his bite is far worse. Trust me. Bear, stil. Now, perhaps you'd like to explain why you're breaking Into jason greenfield's apartment And taking his possessions, including that watch. I'm not a thief. Read the back. "to jason greenfield from the sloan family." You knew him? Jason was my foster brother. I'm here 'cause I'm trying to solve his murder. It's me and jason. His parents were addicts. They burnt the house down cooking meth when he was 14. My mom and dad had started fostering, so Instant brother. When he was 18, my parents gave him this, You know, just-- just to remind him That no matter what, he always had us. I just wish he believed it. What do you mean? Jason always messed around with hacking. And after moving out, he got more obsessed, And spent more and more time with other hackers. Finally just fell off the map. Two weeks ago, I'm looking At another investigator's case files, And I see his name. I couldn't believe it. I mean, he swore that he would never start using. Now, he dies of an o.D.? People do change. Not jason. Not--not-- not about that. The minute I walked in, I knew. I mean, I've been to the homes Of a lot of heroin addicts who died. You know what you don't see? High-end tv. Stereo. Gold watch? Huh? It all goes to getting their fix. You think someone killed him, then covered it up. Why? I'm not sure. But let's take a look at what isn't here. No computer, no tablet, no phone. What kind of hacker doesn't have a computer? It does seem strange. You found nothing with any data in it whatsoever? I found a flash drive In the microwave before you came in. Looks like he fried it. May I? I'd like to help if I can. Jason may have tried to destroy The contents of the drive. Yes, it's largely been wiped clean. Uh--wait. There's a fragment of stray data. It's a piece of an email. What does it say? I can only recover a few words. "you don't understand. If I try to leave, they'll kill me." The question is, who are they? And what is this? I found it in jason's jacket. It's an address for A storage unit. That is weird. Our guys checked. He didn't have a storage unit. Yeah, sure. Hmm, that's one way to lower your cholesterol. Hr's protection payment. Dirty money for dirty cops. Deliver it as usual. Then find out where it goes from there. I can't do that. Do you really wanna test me? 'cause I've got a shiny new 1911 To back me up on that. What did morozov say to you back there? Beats me. I don't speak russian. That's funny 'cause it looked like you understood every word. Look. Morozov's been running that deli since I was a kid. Hr knows that and respects it. These payments are about loyalty. Let me tell you something, laskey. One day soon, you're gonna find out Exactly what hr expects from you In return for that loyalty. You get a good look at her? She came outta nowhere. Got your message, lionel. Looks like you found root's car. Yeah, and a crazy story to go with it. Guy over there says this medical supply van Was just stolen by two women driving that car. One waves them down, engine trouble. When he goes to take a look, The other one knocks him out With some kind of martial arts. I hate to tell you, but root and shaw, They're working as a team, A scary one. A thank-you would be nice. Finch, I'm closer to root and shaw. From what I'm seeing, it looks less like An abduction and more like a partnership. A partnership? To what end? No idea, but with root involved, Anything's possible. A troubling development, mr. Reese, And I'm afraid I have another one. It seems that mr. Sloan's foster brother jason May have been murdered by some mysterious group. You think that same group might be the threat against sloan? The only way to know for sure would be to determine Who killed jason and why. Are you sure you don't need my help on this? No, mr. Reese, tracking ms. Shaw Is your top priority. All right. But, finch, I'm here if you need me. So I just got off the phone With the manager from the storage center. Unit 117 was rented out to a guy named john glover. Now, he recognized jason's description, Said that jason was one of a bunch of people Who used to visit that unit at all hours. The day after jason died, Those same people came back in, Cleaned the place out, Scrubbed it from top to bottom with bleach. Did they have a photo I.D. On file for john glover? No. Glover paid a full year in advance with cash. For all we know-- glover may not even exist. Let's see if any other storage units Have been rented using that name. No other rentals under john glover, But there in brooklyn, Another unit paid for a full year in cash And rented the same day they cleared out John glover's unit. Who rented that one? Samuel miles. Wait. John glover? Samuel miles? That's the connection-- glover and miles Are both generals in the american revolution. Hardly seems like a coincidence. Let's go find that storage unit. So this mission we're on, what is it? We'll find out soon enough. When you see this statue again, Think impact. The machine told you that? I suppose I could be making it up. And I suppose I could be kicking your ass. Insurance. And where are we headed to now? Down. Spaghetti and an oxygen tank make a mean thermal lance. What am I cutting? This. You know the last time I used a blowtorch Was to get intel from an uncooperative source. Now, you either tell me what we're here to do, Or I walk. Honestly? Most of the time, I'm told what to do A second before I have to do it. The big picture, that's hers. The only thing I know for sure is I need you. Then you should get out of my way. Wait. Safety first. Funny, the stuff you learn from work. My truck's stuffed with crowbars, Key cutters, and bump hammers. Never know what you're gonna need for the job. Let's see what the people who killed my brother Were doing here. Oh, good. This is empty too. Why pay for a storage unit A year in advance and put nothing in it? Look at the dust. A lot of activity along this wall here. They are storing something here. We just need to shine a light of a different spectrum, The kind somebody like you might use To detect fluids. You have anything like that in your truck? I do. Okay, so you don't know what we're doing. Can you at least tell me what we're doing next? Breaking and entering. Locked door. Phone. What's missing? Behind you. Highly trained operative in a bad suit. This is a cia pickup site. Agent number? Confirmation? Diego 241. Pickup tomorrow, 0800. Have the package ready. Okay, so what's the package? I am. Here you go. Uv lamp. Kill the lights. Oh, my god. What is this? A message center For people who'd want to communicate Without being overheard. Question is What are they saying? All right, that's weird. Look at this sprinkler. It's--they're not attached to the same pipes That service the other units. Right there. Looks like some kind of motor. Camera. Oh, dear. We've gotta get-- We're locked in! It's gasoline! They're gonna burn the place down with us in it. Mr. Reese. I believe I know who tried to burn us alive. The last time I saw code like this, It was used by this man. Peter collier. He's a member of a group trying to send a message About government surveillance and privacy. And he'll kill anyone who gets in his way. So far, collier's the most visible member Of the group, and your foster brother Jason greenfield was likely a member as well. But jason would never hurt anyone. Well, that may not have been his role in the group. The email I recovered from jason's flash drive Contained an identifier string That I was able to match to a conversation On the darknet, an exchange between hackers, One of whom was being lauded for exploits That were nothing short of astonishing. The hacker goes by the name of atlas7, But their real identity seems clear. My brother. Indeed. The targets he chose are all government, Military, data-collecting corporations. Perhaps that's what put him on collier's radar. So they teamed up, And at some point, greenfield tried to get out. And they killed him. They may be coming after you now. Me? These people value privacy. Secrecy above all else, mr. Sloan. By uncovering them-- you kicked the hornet's nest. The best way to protect you from collier Is to find out what he's up to And get out ahead of it. The messages in the storage units Appear to have been encrypted With a running key cipher. We find the key, we break the code. So what's the key? A long string of text. A letter, a book. Jason would've had that key too. So it must be in his apartment. I'll go check it out. And I'll go somewhere where I can do More in-depth research. Hey. I'm coming with you. You should stay here. You're looking for the key to this code, right? Well, there's something I do better than anybody else, And that's finding things That people keep hidden. Please. Let me do it for jason. Come on. Cia is here to pick us up. Any last words? Whatever. Pin? Good to meet you, agent dearborn. She been sanitized? Looks like you got a fun one. You don't know the half of it. Laskey, it's simmons. Go see your pal morozov. I think he needs your help. Who are you? Where's morozov? Exactly what I called you here to talk about. When's the last time you counted the money You got from morozov? You think he's been skimming? Boss, I've known morozov my entire life. He values hr. Laskey. You're a rookie, So I'm gonna let you off with a lesson this time. You need to learn the difference Between knowing someone And trusting them. See, this kid I can trust. Because he values hr? No. It's because he's scared of us. You got it? Yeah. Thanks for the lesson, boss. Oh, that ain't the lesson. Old man morozov made the mistake of pulling a gun When I called him out as a thief. There's a shovel in the backseat. Don't skimp. Cells one through three secure, sir. Hope the voice in your head knows what it's doing. That's gotta go. Sundown, ottawa. Left, right, left, right, one, two, three. You say the sweetest things. Agent dearborn? Nick breckenridge. Chief interrogator. Little late to be checking in a new asset. We're prepping all prisoners for transport. Transport? We just got here. You know the drill, dearborn. We move these guys every 72 hours. You get to interrogate indefinitely. Now, I need some info. Encrypted radios always acting up. Name of operation? Sundown. Asset's place of origin? Ottawa. Transport authentication number? Should have gotten it from the operative Guarding the pickup site. Stress was high on this one. Must have forgot. You noc types think you can just Come in here and ignore all kinds Of protocol, don't you? No authentication number, no access. Does anybody know how to-- left, right. Left, right, one, two, three. We use them all the time at the farm. Give that to the intake guard at the next site. And next time, remember your damn authentication number. Still searching greenfield's apartment, finch. Keep looking, mr. Reese. None of the books you've found so far match the code. The kitchen's clean. No luck here either. All right, it's gotta be somewhere. Scavenger hunt. What? It-- It's a game that jason and I used to play When we were bored. We would steal something from each other. Then we'd hide it in the house, Except jason would always lose Because he always chose the same place. The heating vent. Care to brush up on your history, finch? The american revolution: A concise history. Why am I not surprised? Let me see. I've located a copy online. It seems to match the algorithm The code is based on. I'll start deciphering. Great. Sloan and I will-- Where's sloan? Grab him! Hurry, we're on the clock here. Get out of here! Mr. Reese? Mr. Reese? Mr. Reese, are you all right? Let's go. Shots fired. He's with the guy in the suit. Mr. Reese. Collier. Mr. Reese, are you all right? You're right, finch. It's collier. Sloan's gone. And we have no way to track him. I'm afraid it gets worse. I've deciphered enough of the code To learn its purpose. It's a plan to kill jason greenfield tonight. Greenfield? Isn't he already dead? You can't keep moving me like this. I'm an american! I have rights. Do you even know my name? Jason greenfield, I presume? How do you know my name? I know a lot about you, jason. I know you hacked government sites For a fringe group of activists, Got squeamish when the group turned violent, Cut a deal with the feds In exchange for a new life, And got screwed over by them and stuck in here. Who the hell are you? Answer me. We're on a bit of a clock here, So let's dispense with the temper tantrum. To answer your question, I'm like you. Fbi trojan horse of 2009, The null worm. What, that was you? That thing infected over In less than a week. If you designed the worm, Then you must be able to tell me how-- A self-executing attachment rewrites the os To infect nearby bluetooth devices And spread wirelessly. That was a long time ago. I'm more interested in you, jason. Well, jason doesn't exist anymore. Those cia liars faked my death. It was supposed to be for my protection. In return, I give them everything About the group. Instead, they brought me to this mobile black site. And now, they can question me forever. Must have gotten bad for you to reach out To people you don't trust. The group murdered someone A data broker. And it's my fault. I'm the one who told vigilance about him in the first place. Vigilance? That's their name. "eternal vigilance is the price of liberty." I said we should scare the bastard, But collier convinced the group That it was time for more Aggressive action. I'm not a killer. Transport's here. Prepare to move out. So you never told me why you're here. Simple, jason. I'm here for you. I'll be right along. I'm not letting this one out of my sight. So sloan's dead brother is really alive? Yes, it seems jason greenfield Turned himself in to the cia. And now, collier wants to kill him for being a traitor. Precisely. According to the plan, the assassination Of mr. Greenfield is scheduled to take place within the hour. They're probably going to interrogate sloan On the way to their mission. So if we can find where they're going to kill greenfield, Then we still have a chance to save them both. Just give me a location, finch. Got it. An intersection downtown. I'm sending you the coordinates. I'm on my way. So you're his brother. Jason said he had no family. What made you choose to look into him now? None of your business. You know what? That is right. We members of vigilance value privacy, Even if the government doesn't. However, when you started digging Into jason's life, you also dug into ours, Our methods, our plans, Which brings me to some rather bad news. We took a vote As to whether we could possibly let you live, And I'm afraid it didn't go your way. My options At this point are limited, But what I can offer you Is a quick exchange of words Followed by an even quicker death. I need to know exactly how much you know About our group and who you've told. Let's start with those two men I've seen you with. Who are they? Feds? Nsa? I don't know, okay? I don't know why they're helping me. I don't know why they care. All I know is jason made a mistake Falling in with you guys. And when he realized it and he tried to get out, You killed him for it. Seems you've gotten ahead of things, mr. Sloan. Jason greenfield is very much alive. You didn't kill him? No. But we are about to. And you're gonna have a front-row seat. We're here. Things are about to get a bit hectic. We'll have to continue this conversation later. Until then, mr. Sloan. Finch, I'm at the intersection. And there is collier's van. Be careful, mr. Reese. What are you doing? In ten seconds, Brace yourself. For what? Impact. Shaw? Now. Mr. Reese, what's happening? Go, go! Move! I just found shaw. Unfortunately, so did collier.  one, two, three, four, five  break down, baby  listen to this, just listen to this   just listen to this, just listen to this   just listen to this, just listen to this  So good to hear your voice.  just listen to this, just listen to this  Time to go, jason.  the number song, but before I start   let's have the countdown Jason?  just listen to this, just listen to this   just listen to this, just listen to this  Shaw. Reese. Gotta save somebody. Know the feeling. Hey, I saw somebody out there. Tim sloan. Do you know why he's here? Is he okay? Did you see a man heading his way? Tall, nice suit? Yeah. He'll be fine. Your new identity And the pass code to a bank account with $2.5 million. Go to cartagena, find a bar Called sol azul in boca grande. Ask for ruiz. Who's he? I have no idea. Now go. Why-- why are you helping me? I'm just following orders, But my guess is you're necessary.  one, two, three, four, five  There she is. I guess a software omniscience Isn't much help if you're out of bullets. All right, bitch. Where's greenfield? Hmm. Why are you smiling at us? I'm not smiling at you. I knew you'd come back for me. Mission accomplished? Absolutely. Good. That's far enough, Assuming you'd like mr. Sloan to survive this encounter. Peter collier. You seem to know my name, One of 'em, But I can't say the same about you. I'm the guy you shot in the back, And I'm here to return the favor. Well, before you do, Perhaps you'd like to tell me how it is You manage to keep showing up At vigilance operations. I'm persistent. And energy and persistence conquer all things. Benjamin franklin. You guys got a thing for the american revolution, Don't you? That's true. In fact, it may soon be time for another one. Forget it, collier. It's over. But only for one of us. You can take me, Or you can save sloan. Aah! Finch, collier shot sloan in the femoral artery. We need help. There's an ambulance on the way, mr. Reese. Hang in there. You're gonna be all right. You learn your lesson, laskey? 6 feet. I didn't skimp. How was your night, laskey? Sleep good? My name is mikhail lesnichy. There are 12 of us russians on the force. Huh. So hr is seeding the nypd With cops they know will be loyal And cementing their deal with the russian mob In the process. What about that money you got from morozov? Hr's stockpiling it. I don't know what for, but whatever it is, They have millions. Hmm. It gets worse than last night, you know. What's worse than burying a friend? Good to see you out of the hospital, mr. Sloan. You're looking well. I can't thank you guys enough, Not just for saving me But for helping me find my brother, Even if it was for a second. You helped us as much as we helped you. Indeed, you've proven yourself to be quite a fine detective, One worthy of raymond chandler. They're packing up jason's stuff for auction today, So I figure I'd stop in And take one last look around. Maybe find a remembrance? Already have one. It suits you. Good luck, mr. Sloan. Excuse me. Hello? Tim? Tim sloan? Jason? Where are you? You wouldn't believe me if I told you. Listen, I've managed to create a secure stream, So we can talk, but it'll only last I just wanted to tell you thanks. Those guys I got involved with, I thought I'd found a new family, but I should've known. You're my family. Jason, I want you to know That I have something of yours, And I'm gonna hold on to it until next time. That sounds good, tim. You'll always be my brother. We're gonna have to keep an eye on him. Collier may try again. If vigilance wants a revolution, These may only be the opening shots. Equally troubling, the machine appears To have sent two teams into the same battle With different goals. Why keep us in the dark about root and shaw? Speaking of which, Have you figured out what to do with root yet? There are more comfortable chairs, if you'd rather Not to mention a padded bench, Which doubles as quite a comfortable bed, Albeit a small one. And all within the proximity radius Programmed into my lovely new ankle accessory. I found out the hard way what happens If I cross it. Just making sure you have everything you need. Well, there's no shortage of reading material. That's for sure, harold. Keeps the mind occupied. You know damn well who's supposed To be occupying my mind. I'm afraid that's out of the question. I suppose that even if I managed To get access to a wireless device, The faraday cage you've constructed in here Would prevent me from communicating with her. Your powers of deduction are as ever impeccable. And your choice of pronoun-- illuminating. Well, if there's nothing else You're going against the machine's wishes By keeping me here, harold. You're only gonna make her angry. Can you imagine what a being that powerful Will do when she's angry? How can you be so certain, ms. Groves, That the machine does not wish you To be precisely where you are?
You are being watched. The government has a secret system-- A machine that spies on you every hour of every day. I designed the machine to detect acts of terror, But it sees everything Violent crimes involving ordinary people. The government considers these people irrelevant. We don't. Hunted by the authorities, we work in secret. You will never find us. But victim or perpetrator, If your number's up, we'll find you. You won't believe what the swede has been doing-- Going to the therapy. How much does the therapist know? Are you resting comfortably? Yes. But I should tell you that, I don't really believe in hypnotism. The act of hypnosis is freewill. For me to proceed, Your mind must grant the permission. Will it work on me the first time? Most of my clients experience results In three to five sessions. So we'll work on your anxiety and paranoia gradually. See, mr. Wren, hypnosis is merely Relaxation combined with imagery. You experience it every night as you drift asleep, Focus on a book, or miss your exit on the f.D.R. Ready? I think so, yes. Then let's begin. Please pick up the tablet beside you, And choose an image that speaks to your emotion. Oh, this one. I want you to close your eyes And form a mental picture of that image. Picture the birds, the field. Then one by one, Picture them as they fly away. Focus on your breathing. One bird departs. And as each one goes, your relaxation increases And you continue to feel calmer and more at rest. For 200 bucks an hour, finch, I hope you get more than an expensive nap. I want to take you back to a place in your life Where you were safe and comfortable. Can you think of that place, mr. Wren? My childhood bedroom. Now, I want you to think Of all the ways it made you feel safe. Picture it clear as day. What color were the walls? Hayden price-- certified hypnotherapist To the upper east side. Does he do birthday parties? It's not that kind of hypnotism, mr. Reese. He caters to wealthy businessmen and socialites. Anger management, smoking cessation, That sort of of thing. Or so you might think, if you didn't know That the office was rented on a short-term lease, And that his certification Doesn't come from any association I can find. During the therapy, I became attuned to the kind of questions That hayden was asking. A color that's favorable to you--blue. The name of a childhood pet--scout. He was fishing-- Getting answers to your security questions. My bank account was suddenly signed up For a recurring automatic donation to a nonprofit Called "the american cancer coalition fund." I'd be willing the wager that hayden's name Is on that nonprofit. So, unless he's moonlighting as a samaritan, I'd say we're dealing with a con artist And a very clever thief. So why'd you even play along, finch? I told hayden what he wanted to hear. I didn't even have a pet as a child. But when I went to bluejack his phone, It was blocked. Someone had already jacked it, Perhaps someone who's out to get him. And his clients would be the best place to start. I'll contact shaw for back-up, But first I need to look in on our houseguest. As before, ms. Groves, mr. Reese is upstairs With an unhealthy number of firearms. Please don't try to run. Honestly, harold, locking me up? I admit that the accommodations are not ideal. But your confinement is for your own good. Harold, your machine called me. An event that I haven't fully reasoned out. But your unpredictability, your willingness to hurt others Make you as dangerous as ever. You can't fight the future. I'll bring you some new books. I get it. You wonder why It won't talk to you like it talks to me. Don't be jealous, harold. Mom still loves us both. When bluejacking hayden didn't work, I sent him a basket of pastries as a thank you. Bugged, of course. I'm just so angry with her, I could kill her. And those feelings will dissipate As you feel calmer, mr. Sykes. Tell me about your mother. Speak her name, out loud-- Her full name. Mary. Mary shackford sykes. Very good. That's a start. It seems therapy has helped, sven. I haven't been able to sleep this well in months. And do you still believe you're surrounded by phonies? Sadly, yes. But thanks to you, I'm able to push past, To rediscover the quality and craft Of my antique business, Search for the meaning in my work. Sounds like hayden isn't a half-bad therapist after all. A lot of patients today?? Anybody weird? Wall-to-wally mommy issues. Mm. Enough to make a man want to smoke. Or under-sleep or over-eat or-- Or? Who's the girl, finch? Her name is natalie boal. She works at an art gallery downtown. She started coming to hayden for therapy A little over a year ago. It's more than therapy now. Ugh, look at that. He isn't working her, he's in love. And if she's making those eyes at him, I bet she doesn't know about his criminal side. Someday, no more patients. No more psychoses. No more snooty art buyers. Just you and me. We just go to the airport Jet off to some corner of the world. Right. With what money, again? Let me worry about that. And when I get enough, It's just you and me and paradise. Mm. Hayden's on the move, finch. According to his schedule, He doesn't have any more appointments today. So where is he going so fast? There you go. Thank you. So, is everything in order? Relax. There's nothing to worry over. The exchange rates are in your favor. I started as a teller at that s&l, you know? And then they tell me I need to take a pay cut. So I decided they owed me a pay raise. Here's my $50,000, mr. Russell. Where's yours? Outstanding. Let's proceed. I'm so gonna shoot this punk. Something's not right. We're meeting your contact here? It's quiet up here, and far from Nosy thieves looking for cash. No. The only thief here is you. Detective decker, nypd. Fraud investigation. Hands up, sucker. Sucker? I can only guess what he got you for, pal. He feed you that line of crap about the exchange rates? And you, pass me that briefcase very slowly. Not today. Aah! Oh, god. Mr. Reese, ms. Shaw, Why aren't you intervening? Wait for it. Is he gone? With his tail between his legs. We really hooked that fish for 20 gs? Sure did. 20? I thought it was 50. Here's your half. Now let's get the hell out of here Before somebody calls the real cops. Who isn't hayden ripping off? This guy's good. I can watch you nursing that coffee for just so long. You should know I called, To check in on you, joss. Well, parking tickets and purse snatchers Aren't exactly a challenge After my old job, mr. Quinn. Alonzo, please. The last time we met, you said You had suspicions about my godson's murder. I tried working a few leads, But cal's department file was sealed. There is a chance here That the organization h.R. Could be involved. H.R.? I thought h.R. Was disbanded. The feds just scattered the roaches. It's sometimes hard to get 'em all. Maybe I can get the mayor involved, Open doors for you at one pp. I wouldn't wanna put you in that kind of position, Mr. Quinn. I'll take my chances on this one solo. All right. I'm sorry, my shift is starting, And I have a rookie partner to pick up. Saddled you with a rookie, huh? Goes with the parking tickets and purse snatchers. Thanks for the coffee. Despite hayden's criminality and his malfeasant theatrics, I still think it's more likely That someone is out to get him Than the other way around. Someone who bluejacked his phone. Maybe one of his clients is on to his scam. Hayden may have conned any number of people, And all it takes is one easy mark With ties to a gang or organized crime, So we don't have a moment to waste. If you and ms. Shaw could visit Some of his more irascible clients, I'll text you their names and addresses on my way. On your way to where? Back to therapy. Mr. Wren, when I snap my fingers, You will come totally out of your resting state Feeling refreshed and relieved After our conversation. Ahh. So how did it go this time? Quite well. You're making very solid progress, mr. Wren. But sadly, our time is up for the day. You really are very good at this, mr. Price. I'm so glad that I was referred to you. Where did you receive your training? The barringer hypnosis institute. Oh, here in new york? Of tarzana, california. I don't believe I know it. What brought you all the way out here? You know, I'm usually the one asking the questions, mr. Wren. Who was it you said referred you to me again? Oh, look at that. You're right. Our time is up for the day. Hey, kid, come here. Yes, sir. Terney says you've been keeping an eye on carter. Yes, sir. Willing to step up, get your hands dirty? What does that mean? Well, we're having trouble with a money launderer. Guy messed up big. But we need him to finish one more job. Then you pull his card, dig a hole. Rest in peace. Who's the guy? The target? Come on, kid. We're taking a field trip. And we're selling the soccer ball. And I have your bid at $300,000. Now 310,000. Hey, what are we doing here? That's your guy. His name is sven. He's an antique dealer down in the village. We call him "the swede." So, what's your story? You first. I'm following an h.R. Lead. They wanna whack a swedish antique dealer For screwing up their money laundering. That's funny. I'm on a con man therapist who happens to have A swedish antique dealer as a patient. I'll pretend that makes sense. I think my con man might be after Your swede and his laundered money. Well, if that's h.R.'s money, Your con man is in for a world of hurt. I'll stick with the con man, keep him out of trouble. I'll stick with the antique dealer, See where he leads. We are going once. We are going twice. Fair warning on this 1911 honus wagner baseball card. Is sold, right here. Number 103 for $900,000. Tomorrow, you're gonna punch that guy's ticket. Well, what do you know? What's the swede's therapist doing here? Hey, finch, we need to find out Why everyone's so interested in the swede. So hayden's patient is an antiques dealer, And he spent a million dollars on a baseball card? And then tossed it Into some cabinet like it was junk. I watched him do it. It's all very strange. And what business does an antique dealer have Laundering h.R.'s money in the first place? And why do they want him dead now? Turns out the swede wasn't going to a real therapist. He was spilling his guts to a con man. We'll do a two for one special And take out the therapist also. I love that. You know, that dinner was such a surprise. I had a lovely time. That's not the only surprise. Let's do it, nat. Let's take our trip. Just go to the airport and pick our destination. Come with me? Hayd, are you serious? What about our-- our jobs, our lives? They'll be here for us when we get back. I wanna be impulsive. I wanna whisk away the girl I love. Yes. Of course. When do we leave? That's the other surprise. Now. Well, tomorrow. I need to do a few things. Pick you up in the a.M.? I'll pack fast. Finch, our con man's blowing the country fast. Something's up. Oh, my god. Aah! Wait, wait, wait, wait. Who the hell are you? The night watch. Who were these guys? The cops-- the real cops. What the hell is going on? We were gonna ask you the same thing, hayden. I just spoke with detective carter. She identified the badge numbers You gave me as h.R. She's positive. What's the deal, con man? Look. Someone just turned my office into swiss cheese, And my girlfriend is waiting for me. If she goes back to my place or to my office-- I just spoke to natalie a half an hour ago. I explained to her how I was your new assistant And I needed to stash her In a motel until you'd visit her. Slight lie. But nothing on a par with you, hayden. That's funny coming from you, mr. Wren. We know you've been scamming your patients, And we know you've had your eye especially On a mr. Vanger, the antique dealer. Did you know he was a money launderer for h.R.? I've heard of h.R., but I swear, I didn't know the money was theirs. Who'd you think you were grifting? Sven came into my office a couple of months ago. He was a chain smoker who had millions Bouncing around in his accounts. It would have been an easy score. Look what happened. I didn't sign up for real bullets. I'm done with this con and I'm out of here. Where's natalie? Nice try. You're staying put. What don't you get about "done"? Look. You want me out of town? I'm out of town. But I can't go without her. See, she's the only honest thing Left about me. I have to try and hold on to that. Detective, have you found out How the antique dealer is connected To h.R.'s money laundering? I'm meeting my source now. You haven't touched your wine, joss. You're off duty. I'm always on duty. Have you heard a word I said? What do you think about the money being laundered? I heard every word. And the money's just h.R.'s skim off the russians. A percentage kicked back to your friends in blue For turning a blind eye to the yogorov business. Please, try the brunello di montalcino. The finish is quite exquisite. What I don't understand Is what h.R. Wants with an antique business. Clean money. See, h.R. Doesn't want Blood-soaked bills from the russians. They want their cut in ones and zeroes, To transfer into their 401ks, Offshore accounts. So, the antique dealer cycles The dirty russian money into his own accounts And waits for instructions. Then he heads to the auction house, Where he's told to bid on a certain High-priced item, an item auctioned off By a seller representing h.R. Our next item up for bid is lot number 426-- An extremely rare baseball signed by all Of the 1927 new york yankees, Including lou gehrig and babe ruth. Informally named, "murderer's row ball." I'd like to start the bidding At $2 million. I got a bid for $2 million. $4.4 million. Where? 4.4 in the front going once, twice. Sold right here, $4.4 million. Thank you. The swede bids the highest, and all of that dirty money Is deposited into h.R.'s coffers, Squeaky clean and laundered, And ready for digital distribution. But I don't get it. They haven't laundered the money. They've just bought an overpriced baseball. All the items h.R. Auctions off May have been appraised For millions of dollars, but they're really Just fugazis, fakes, worthless junk. So h.R. Gets russian money for nothing? It's a perfect system, Till someone on the outside knows about it. So if your con man thinks he can just swoop in And take a piece of h.R.'s business, He better watch his back. Who do you always meet in there? None of your business. Carter, I've been thinking. That antique dealer, I can't just kill someone. When I got involved with h.R., I didn't think-- No, you didn't think. You just looked the other way. I can't do that anymore. And you're the only person I've got on my side right now. I'm not on your side. But I'm also not letting a homicide happen Under my watch. So, tomorrow, you're calling in sick. I am? Yeah, see you just got a new job. Tomorrow, you're simmons's shadow. Wherever he goes, you go. Whoever he meets with, you get pictures of. See, we just tapped into their piggy bank. Now I wanna know who's running the bank. What is going on? Where have you been? What-- who is that creepy guy? Natalie, I'm so sorry. I get a call from someone at your office Telling me to come to some hotel, And then you don't even show up. It's okay. You need to take a breath. The more you breathe, The calmer you'll be. No, no, no. Do not hypno-talk me. I'm not hypno-talking you. I'm saying, just be calm-- I'm not one of your patients. I know that, I know that. You have to tell me-- Finch, you ever notice how much of our job Is like babysitting? Well, it's more than that today. I don't think hayden's told us The whole story of his con. I'm going over hayden's hard drive, What I downloaded of it before he zapped it. And I'm finding emails addressed To sven vanger, the antique dealer. Hayden may have elicited his email password While he was under hypnosis. It appears that hayden duplicated an email That sven had received, but not yet read. And he altered it in the process. And what did the email say? The email is from an anonymous address, Regarding an auction that took place today. In it, vanger was instructed to bid on lot 424, But hayden redrafted it, Instructing him to bid on lot 426. Perhaps you should ask hayden why. He went out the window. Finch, hayden used his girlfriend And gave us all the slip. I'm sorry. I'm about to close. No, sven, you're already closed. Who are you with, the russians or the police? I have nothing left for you. I'm not with either. But I do need something-- answers. I'm not your doormat. Why don't you drop that before you hurt yourself, sven? Give it to me. Why is it every time you call me these days, I know to bring a firearm? But he was such a good therapist. Hey, dragon tattoo, He's also a con man who stole from you. Not stealing from me, stealing from them. He should not be doing that. How'd you even get into this mess? Seven months ago, I got in trouble With the customs here in new york. A cop named simmons came and said he could Make the charges go away if I helped them launder cash For a few russian associates of theirs. At first, it was just a few hundred thousand each month. Then it became more and more-- millions. I got rid of the last cash today. On lot 426? How did you know about that? Hayden played you. He switched out your emails, and made you bid On the wrong item today. Then what did I purchase? A real ball, signed by the real 1927 yankees, Really worth 4.4 million. That was a hell of a season. Where's the ball, sven? It's gone. I sold it for $5. They're going to kill me. I gotta get out of this city immediately! Too late. You're a marked man. Close your eyes. This stuff burns. So we're faking crime scenes now? A long way from your days back at the eighth. Might wanna spread it out. Arterial spray is more erratic. Will you let me work? Going for a kind of a hollow-point special Kind of motif. There. Congratulations. You've just died and been reborn. Now, take your new life, And get the hell out of new york. Yeah? Hey, rookie, I need you to hold off on the antique dealer. Something went wrong at the auction house. We didn't get our money. Sir, there's a small problem. Just heard from my source in h.R., Simmons knows they get ripped off. All this baseball stuff, you should've Called me in sooner. I'm kind of a mets fan, though. Somewhere in the city, your soda kid's walking around With a zillion-dollar baseball in his pocket. With h.R. Looking for the ball. And the young man has no idea. Let's hope he don't play catch. Hey, kiddo, you got something for me? I can't believe hayden would use his own girlfriend As an excuse to escape. I can. A baseball worth 4 million Would be a motivational force. Oh, he doesn't care who he steps on To get away with it either. Exactly. He still has to get away, But he won't go without natalie. As you and I well know, Sometimes necessity and desire can conflict. Hayden's still in the city. He's too smart to use his own phone. So how do we track him? We don't. We track natalie. Hayden's calling her right now. Nat, please, I'm sorry. I've done things that I'm not proud of, But I love you. Can you trust me on that? I wanna know what's going on right now. That's a little complicated, nat. Wait. Where are you? I'm going home. Did you think I was just gonna sit in that hotel room After you went out the window? No, honey, you can't go there. It's not safe for you. Really? How would I even know? Look, hayden, I love you. But I deserve the truth, or else I'm done. I'm a criminal and a thief. But I'm done with that life. I secured a score that will ensure our future. The kind of score that Would let us pick our destination. If you meet me outside my old office in one hour, Then we can fly To any corner of the world, like we planned. And I'll tell you everything. Stop loving me or even hate me, But please hear me out. I'll be there. I didn't wanna worry you. I'm cleanin' up this mess. You say the swede bought the baseball? That's what the logs at the auction house said. But without him, it's gonna be A little tough to track him. That idiot bought a real autographed ball Worth $4.4 million, And we had a rookie kill him Before we found out what he did with it? Maybe the rookie should be handling your end of things. At least he follows through. But you said there was a con man involved. Yeah. Find him. Shake him till the damn ball falls out. And tell me you have at least one lead. When we tapped his phone, we found out About the con man's little girlfriend. It seems the guy's in love. He ain't going anywhere without her. Make it right, simmons. I got two loves-- my money and this city. Mess with either, I mess right back. Hey, lover boy. What'd you expect? I'm a crook. He's my expert. What, you don't trust me? Like you said, you're a crook. I don't know about expert, but it looks pretty damn real. I have a buyer lined up. I'll split it with you, 50/50. Not a half bad deal, huh? Will you at least let me call natalie Before you kill me or arrest me Or put me in a well in your basement? You have 30 seconds. Sorry to disappoint, con man. Seems the nypd isn't bad at phone traces. I found your girl in 20 minutes. I'll give you the ball. It's yours. Don't be noble. There's only criminals on this line. But I'll take the ball, just the same. You meet me in front of the auction house in 20 minutes. How bad is it? They'll kill her. These people, for this much money? So what are you gonna do to stop them? I'm scum. I get it. But natalie-- My ultimate con, my final trick Was gonna be actually Turning into the guy that she fell in love with. I'll give it all away to save her life. Will you help me? This is how it goes. Rookie stays outside with the girl. Terney, take the con man inside, Verify the ball is real. I'm not taking any more chances with this clown. Why do I have to go inside? Because that's what you were just told. Once we confirm the ball is the real deal, Laskey takes the girl, puts a double tap in her head. Questions? Boss, uh, she doesn't know anything. Why don't we just let her go? Do I look like I'm taking suggestions From rookies today? No, sir. The ball? The girl. I wanna talk to natalie. You're going inside first. One thing you can trust about a thief Is he'll always be a thief. I'm so sorry. Call me when there's money and bodies. Laskey. You were right, carter. They would never let her go. Make it look good. Remember, the aim shouldn't be to hurt him, Just incapacitate him a little. Also, watch your knuckles. I've punched a lot of guys. So have I. Let's get you to safety. We've been through this already, it's real. You think I'd be standing here if it wasn't? We'll see. I'll know in a minute. I need a microscope to know for sure, But the texture appears accurate. There is, however, a problem. What? See this? Babe ruth's signature? Yeah. What about it? It's in felt-tip pen. Those didn't exist when babe ruth was alive. This ball is a fake. You give us a fake? You give us a fake? You wanna die? I swear, That is the real ball. The real ball costs $4 million. The fake is just gonna cost you a bullet, con man. Why would I lie? You have to believe me. We can figure this out. Where is the real ball? Terney. So where's the real ball? I have no idea. I thought this was the real ball. Forget that. Where's natalie? I put her in a cab, told her to go somewhere safe. This is natalie. Nat, where are you? Are you okay? Oh, I'm better than okay. You see, that antique dealer-- Sven was his name-- well, he may have been Your big score, but you were my big whale, From the moment I met you. You--you played me? Why steal millions from criminals When you can date the thief And take it off him? Keep the change. Of course, things did get a little hairy With those corrupt cops, but you always did Know how to show a girl a good time, hayden. Where will you go? Oh, go find an airport, Maybe just pick a destination. Isn't that the dream come true? You know, I really did love you. Well, if you love something, Set it free. I'm ruined. Maybe it's time you went on the straight and narrow. You'll live longer. I hear hypnotherapists Are in pretty high demand these days. You know, I do have a thriving practice to rebuild. I'm gonna need a new office with a few less bullet holes. My advice? Rebuild in another city. Detective terney, I can't help but notice You're not carrying a ball. The ball the con man brought was a fake. The guy with the suit showed up, rolled laskey and our guys, And then got away with the con man and his girl. Do you have any idea what's at stake here? You go find that screw-up laskey And you scour this city until you find that ball. Simmons, I'm not the rookie. Don't talk to me like one. If you don't find that ball, Then it's gonna be a $4 million funeral For the both of you. Now go. I was just turning out the lights for the evening, Ms. Groves, and I remembered that I had promised to bring you some new reading material. A peace offering, harold? Is that what you've brought? I really think if you could just see things my way, And not consider this-- Imprisonment? Is there any other way to consider it? This truly is for your own good, ms. Groves. I mean that when I say it. This synchronistic relationship That you've developed with the machine, it can't be-- I worry about you. You've misunderstood the situation. You shouldn't worry about me. I'm worried about you, harold. You can't stop what's coming, and neither can I. But we have the opportunity To understand things when they finally change. The future is coming. You started it And I'll finish it. You missed me. Leave a message. Laskey, I'm outside your place. We have a lot of work to do. Come on. I stuck to the guy like glue. This is everyone simmons met with. Thanks, kid, you did all right. But you should know, it'll get harder out there. After these last few days, things are gonna heat up. So you need to be prepared. Oh. When I got involved with h.R., I thought it was about loyalty. I was wrong. It's about murder and greed. Well, ain't that cozy. I should've known she'd turn you, rookie. The first time I saw you, I knew you were weak. So let me tell you how the world works now, kid. We kill her or they kill us. That decision is gonna be your last, terney. No! Laskey? That much blood, And you'll be dead in a minute, maybe two. Make 'em count. Who do you and simmons report to? Who calls the shots? Is the answer in these pictures, huh? Last chance, terney! Be a cop!
You are being watched. The government has a secret system-- A machine that spies on you every hour of every day. I designed the machine to detect acts of terror, But it sees everything Violent crimes involving ordinary people. The government considers these people irrelevant. We don't. Hunted by the authorities, we work in secret. You will never find us. But victim or perpetrator, If your number's up, we'll find you. The politicians come and go, But we'll be here forever. Beecher's looking for answers. I always told cal to be careful. Being a cop's a dangerous job. Hr rebuilt itself from ashes, 'cause we didn't cut off the head. If we had, cal might still be alive. I'm playing by different rules now, Until I can bring down the boss. Who do you and simmons report to? Who calls the shots? Those bastards think they can steal from me? Then they're gonna reap what they sow. Finch, you doing a little spring cleaning? I wish I was. I received numbers this morning. to be precise. Maybe the machine blew a belt or something. It's not a lawn mower, mr. Reese. It's also never wrong. While I haven't decoded all the numbers, There does appear to be a common thread. They're all cops. Four of them are known members of hr, Leaving a high probability that the rest may be as well. All about to commit a violent crime? Or they've been targeted, and hr is under siege. Things are about to get chaotic, mr. Reese. I've already contacted ms. Shaw to enlist her assistance. I'll see if fusco's heard any rumblings around the eighth Of an hr conflict. If we could locate the source of the threat, Perhaps we could defuse the situation Before it escalates. Perhaps. Meantime, you might want to get bear here Fitted for a vest. Vest? Not like yours, finch. K-9 ballistic. For when things get chaotic. Heard anything, lionel? If you're looking for info on hr, I got something you wanna see. Everything okay here? Detective fusco. I'm detective stills. Can we be of any assistance? Not unless you speak russian. Best I can tell, he was driving along, And he came upon a burning car. Then--if I got this right-- someone knocked him out And stole his truck. Zdravstvuyte, my friend. What kind of truck were you driving? Office supply truck? A delivery truck? Da. I think you can take it from here, officer. Nice badge. You wanna give me a warning Next time you do something like that? But that would ruin the surprise. So what does all this have to do with hr? Know who has an office supply company? Peter yogorov. He uses it to smuggle drugs into the city. Under the hr alliance, The cops are supposed to provide safe passage. Now you wanted to know why hr might be in trouble? How about the russians losing A truck full of contraband on their watch? Think you can get us a look at that camera feed? Yeah, I love using all my favors for you guys. What do you think, finch? I'm inclined to agree with detective fusco. So yogorov blames hr for his missing shipment. Decides to sever ties. And targets 38 members of hr's rank. This situation is a powder keg, mr. Reese. It's about to explode. So who lit the fuse? Whole department's reeling. Not too sure of how many more funerals the nypd can endure. Do you have any idea what happened Between detective terney and officer laskey? I wasn't aware of any conflict. Didn't even know they knew each other. Well, there's some speculation that it's hr-related. Mayor's concerned about a resurgence In organized crime. Last time we talked, you seemed to indicate That hr might have been behind my godson's murder. Maybe. I-I don't know. All I know is taking on hr It's like fighting a battle that can't be won. One step forward, three steps back. And now, losing my partner I need to close the book on cal's murder. I have to move on. I wanted to tell you that in person. Joss You're one of the most dedicated cops I know, And the city could use more like you. Cal would be very proud of everything you did. And don't worry. We will find who's responsible for his death. Thanks, alonzo. Anytime. I've got a big briefing with the mayor. I'll take care of this. I'll see you soon. I look forward to it. Spoke to carter this morning. Says she's stepping down on the beecher case. You believe her? Even if I did, we can't have Any more bodies dropping right now. Keep an eye on her just in case. Will do. Did yogorov accept our new terms? Not yet. He wants to meet at a grain depot in red hook. Meet him in siberia if he wants. Just get him to agree to the new price. Who's the new guy? This is mitchell. He'll be running point on tomorrow night's shipment. So we still on schedule? Just in time to restock the shelves. My guy will call you when he hits laurel hill. We'll escort the trucks, Provide safe passage through town. But it's gonna cost an extra 10%. Why? Cost of doing business. If I'm going to pay more, I ought to get more. Don't you think? Like what? My brother's still in rikers, for one. You were supposed to get us both out. Well, these things take time. It's in progress. I'm starting to feel less like your partner And more like your errand boy. We launder your money, sell your drugs, Even take out your trash. Like that narco cop you were too afraid to knock off. I didn't come to hear you bitch, yogorov. You kicking in the extra 10% or what? I don't think so. You don't pay, we don't provide safe passage for the drugs. Anything happens, it's on you. I'll take my chances. What do you wanna do? Let me worry about that. I need you on a new assignment. Tell me you didn't use the front door. I never do. Where's taylor? Somewhere safe. Any reason he wouldn't be safe here? Like your off-the-books pursuit of hr? Everyone needs a hobby. Most hobbies don't involve dirty cops staked Outside your apartment. If you want, I can take care of him for you. I'd appreciate it if you left him alone. Respectfully, I'd appreciate it If you left me alone for a while too. Now's not the time to fly solo, carter. Don't get me wrong, john. I appreciate everything you've done for me And this city. But in the eyes of the law, you're still a criminal. And hr already knows we work together. And if they could prove it No, I'm sorry. I gotta finish this alone. All right. Do what you need to do. But hr won't go down without a fight. If you get in over your head, give me a call. With the way you guys keep tabs on me, How much trouble can I get in? Watch your back, joss. Read your file, carter. Top of your class at the academy, High marks across the board-- that's great. Now, throw it all out. None of it's worth a damn out here on the street. Excuse me for one second. I'll be right back. 'sup, joss? What are you doing here, paul? Just got back into town. Friend hooked me up with a construction crew. I see you traded in one uniform for another. Guess you, uh, Always had a thing for hunting bad guys. None of that answers my question. Wanted to see how you were getting along, you know? See how our son was doing. You think you can just show up after two years And ask to see taylor? Look, joss, things are better now, okay? I'm better. So that means you went to the v.A.? The v.A.? Nah, I don't need some head shrinker analyzing me. All right, joss? I just needed some time to just clear my head. It's not that simple, paul. I saw the toll combat took on you. You still think I'm a danger, don't you? Joss, I never laid a hand on either one of y'all. No. I'd just find you asleep on the kitchen floor Cradling a gun, with our son in the next room. Well, that's not gonna happen again. You're right. It won't. Because if you don't get help, You'll never have a relationship with your son. And until then, I think it's best you stay away from both of us. I got your messages, fusco. All ten of 'em. I heard what happened to laskey. How you holding up? It's never an easy thing, losing a partner. Kinda makes you wonder What really went down between those two that night. Not sure I wanna know. You know what I think? I think someone else was there. I think someone shot them both And staged the scene. The only question is, who? I don't know, fusco. But whatever happened, I don't want any part of it. Terney was the one who told you Hr had your boyfriend killed. Now he's dead along with your rookie partner? I mean, don't you wanna know why? Something I realized: It's not always worth the risk to know why. I guess not. It'll be all right, fusco. Just lay low for a while. Yeah. Hey, listen, I gotta get back. Don't stay a stranger, all right? Hey, it's me. I need you to pay someone a visit. Just got word. Our shipment's crossed state lines. So far, no signs of trouble. Makes me wonder why we ever needed cops for this In the first place. What the hell? You know what crime you're most guilty of, peter? Letting this man cook for you. Those look heavy. Relax. If I wanted you dead, I'd be a little more creative than this. I'm surprised you're still in town. Figured you be on a beach somewhere, Sipping mai tais and licking your wounds. I just can't leave yet. Not with front-row seats to this little drama Playing out between you and hr. I don't know what you're talking about. The wheels of history are turning again, peter. Take my word for it. If the cops can't control you, they'll betray you. Just like they did me. But unlike me, you still have a chance To do something about this. Words of wisdom from the man who killed my father. Tell me why I should listen to you. Enemy of my enemy. I just can't pass up a chance to watch hr suffer. What's this? A gift. Mmm. Let that simmer for 15 minutes, then stir with vinegar. Well? Yogorov got the package. Whether he received the message is another story. He'll understand soon enough. Save everyone a lot of trouble if you'd let me kill him. That won't be necessary. In fact, you might want to keep a low profile For the next couple days. Already planning on it. And whatever you're up to, officer, I wish you the best of luck. I have a feeling you're gonna need it. Hmm. Who was on the phone? Someone who owes me a favor. It's all there? Everything but the kitchen sink. Tried it, didn't fit. I appreciate you not telling the guys about this. Boys can't have all the toys. You're fixing to have quite a party with all this stuff. You sure you don't need an assist? The 37 mil can be tricky. Thanks. But I can take it from here. Honestly, mr. Reese, This looks like something you would do. Gotta admit, I wish I was invited. After digging into 30 out of the 38 hr numbers, Not a single man possesses the talents displayed In that footage. I'm not so sure it was a man. Come take a look at this. Height, build-- I think our assailant might be a woman. A woman sets a car on fire and attacks a drug shipment Wearing a gas mask? Who does that remind you of, mr. Reese? What are you guys looking at? All right, you're being weird. This your handiwork? I guess she does know her way around a 37 mil. Ms. Shaw, you know something about this? I know someone needed firepower. Reese had plenty, So I made a donation on his behalf. Wait. That's my grenade launcher? Oh, my god, that's detective carter, isn't it? Your social circle isn't terribly wide. She told me she didn't want you guys involved. Because we would have tried to talk her out of it. Until now, her investigation into hr Has fallen on the legal side of things. But this Pitting them against the russians? You two get eyes on every one of those numbers. And how exactly can we be I don't care. If they find out carter's behind this, Only one number's coming up-- hers. Yes? Good morning, alonzo. How did you get this number? Found it. On the burner phone your man dropped When he made off with my supply truck last night. I was sorry to hear about what happened to your shipment, But I'm not exactly sure what you're implying. You ripped me off, old man. Taking your toys and going home. Except they weren't your toys to take. I'm going to pretend You're having a momentary lapse in judgment. You got robbed, and now you're not thinking straight. Well, then let me be extra clear right now. I'm looking at names and pictures Of top-level hr members. Return my drugs, Or your men don't make it home for dinner. Joss? Finch, I haven't found carter, But I think I know who the head of hr is. And I believe I know as well. I just decoded the last number. Alonzo quinn. Makes sense. The mayor's chief of staff would be in a prime position To lead hr from the shadows. He's also the man who ordered beecher's death. This is more personal for carter than we thought. Then you'd better do everything in your power to find her. I see you're looking for me. Joss? Where are you? I can't tell you that. But I know exactly where you are. Thought you promised to keep your distance. That was before I knew you were starting a war. We know about quinn and what he did to cal. Then you know why he can't get away with it. Take it from me. Revenge isn't the answer. Tell me where you are. Please just let me help you. You once asked me to trust you To do what needed to be done. Now I'm asking the same of you. Talk to me. No one knows who hit the russian truck. Video footage from the rtcc is conveniently missing. This has "man in the suit" written all over it. Frankly, I don't care who stole yogorov's cargo. If he's considering an end to our alliance, He's a major liability. He's threatening our people. I'd say the alliance if finished. Peter yogorov doesn't have the stones To come after us. Boss, what the hell just happened? Someone just took a shot at me in my office. Yogorov. He wants to bite the hand that feeds, he can starve. Round up his top ranks and take them on out to red hook. Kill 'em and bury 'em. But bring yogorov to me. I'll deal with that son of a bitch myself. While you were looking for detective carter, I received more numbers. It appears that hr has responded to the russian threat in kind. Guess it was only a matter of time Until this escalated into an all-out war. If you'll forgive my gallows humor, I'll put my money on hr. Why do you say that? Because they have something on their side That the russians don't, mr. Reese. The law. Grab yogorov's men. Keep it quiet. No blood on the streets. Hands where I can see them. Get out of the car. Nikolai, where the hell are you? Watch your back. Hr's moving against us. First five guys through that door Get early retirement! That come with a pension? I remember you. Good, we can skip the introduction. Hr already rounded up all your boys. You're the last little indian. And right now, they're on their way here To kill you. So if you wanna live, You're coming with me. Last time I went with you, you arrested me. Guess old habits die hard. Taylor! Taylor? You okay? We're great. Aren't we, little man, hmm? I'm sorry. He just showed up. It's all right, thanks for calling. Paul, can I talk to you outside? Why not here? I mean, the boy's old enough to hear what you have to say. Take my son into his room. Sure. Come on, taylor. The hell are you doing, Besides giving me a good reason to lock you up? Look, joss. A boy needs a father in his life. A father who's willing to admit When he needs help. You know what? You didn't see combat like I did. You spent your time back on a base, Chatting up terrorists. And then when you came home, You were fine. You think it was that easy for me? I had problems too. But I found ways to handle them. Look, just because I did it by myself Doesn't mean you have to. Okay, so let me guess. I should go Talk to the v.A., right? I told you, I'm not gonna do that. That's right, because you run from your problems. I'm not running! You gonna shoot me now, joss? Get out of my house. Joss-- Thank you. Yeah. I'm sorry you had to hear that. What's wrong with daddy? Sometimes he gets mad. And he doesn't know why. Will he get better? I don't know, baby. But hey As long as we got each other, You and I are gonna be fine. Okay? Come here. This your idea of protection? A sheriff station in bedford? I booked you as a dui Under the name joe manco. Should keep you alive for a few hours, at least. The best I could do for the guy Who took a shot at the head of hr. I didn't take a shot at anyone. Thing about dirty cops, peter They're not big on evidence. Do you recognize this man? That cop got shot a few months back. His name's cal beecher. He was alonzo quinn's godson. Remind me to send flowers. Peter, I know quinn's the head of hr. And I know he ordered your men To carry out the hit on beecher. Even if that were true Never be able to prove it. Maybe not. But then again I've been following hr and the russians for months. I've gathered enough evidence to put almost everybody away. Including you. So then why are we talking? Because it's your lucky day. I want quinn's head more than I want yours. Sorry. I'd rather rot in prison than be labeled a rat. Every room I go in, I always look for the exits. I was a soldier. Can't turn it off. So trust me when I tell you You only have one way out of this. And that's quinn going down. He stays out there, Doesn't matter who else I arrest, He'll be coming for you eventually. I can take care of myself. I respect that. I really do. But can you say the same for your brother? You ever wonder why hr's kept him in rikers? Leverage. There are about half a dozen corrupt cops awaiting trial On the same cell block as your brother right now. You sign this statement I could get laszlo moved to safer facilities Within the next few hours. So what's it gonna be? Just show me the damn statement. Now what? I get an arrest warrant for quinn. You sure you got a judge you can trust with that? Quinn liked to spread that money around. We made him a lot of it. Spent the last few days vetting judges. Narrowed it down to a couple. My statement, The evidence you got, And this whole thing comes down to blind luck. Do me a favor, officer. Choose wisely. Because if you don't, Then you, me, and my brother Are all dead. Scared me half to death, carter. I'm sorry. Can't take any chances. Yeah, wonder boy told me what you're up to. This your idea of laying low? I had to make a bit of a mess. That's why I needed to see you. Yeah? I'm not sure why. I couldn't figure out at first Why you didn't read me into this thing. Why you cut me out. Then I realized you still don't trust me. I get it. I guess there's a certain stink you really can't wash off. That's not it, fusco. But I know how hard it was For you to get out from underneath hr. Anything goes wrong, You're the first guy they're gonna come for. I was trying to protect you. Protect me? By keeping me in the dark? I thought we were partners. We are. That's why I'm here now. What's this? It's to a safety deposit box At the one state bank in hoboken. Inside is everything I collected on hr. Recordings, money trails, everything. I'm about to get an arrest warrant for quinn. Then what? Then I'm gonna arrest him. But if anything happens I need you to hold on to that. No. "no" what? No way you're gonna come here With this "if anything happens to me" crap. Lionel, you're the only person in the world I trust with this. Plus You're the best partner I ever had. If you think I'm gonna let you take down quinn by yourself After coming here and saying something like that, You got another thing coming. Okay. We'll take your car, but I'm driving. Oh, you might want to get your vest. Let me grab it. You know what? Grab your 12-gauge too. All right. Sorry, fusco. But I gotta do this one alone. All this could have been avoided if your boss Hadn't tried to kill mine. Carter's so determined to get quinn, She's forgotten about collateral damage. You ready, shaw? One question-- once we save the bad russians From the bad cops, What exactly are we gonna do with them? Let's finish this. Fbi! Who's in charge here? Detective stan mitchell. We got a tip the russians were making a deal out here. We came to bust it up. Carter. You know, we got a tip as well. Bunch of corrupt cops were gonna kill some russians Over a pile of missing drugs. Mind if we look in your trunk? Hope you got a good lawyer, detective. Guess our work here is done. Did you find her, lionel? She found me. But she, uh Let me guess. She ditched you. She's going alone on this one. She doesn't want any help. They'll kill her If they figure out what she's up to, john. We'd better find her then. Let's split up. Spread out in case finch comes up with her location. Hello. Judge monahan? It's joss carter. I apologize for calling so late, but I was hoping You could grant me an arrest warrant tonight. It can't be done in the morning? I'm afraid not. I have a sworn statement Implicating a prominent member of city hall In a major crime and corruption ring. Have you spoken to the d.A. About this? I will, first thing in the morning. But right now, I need the warrant. I understand. Get here as soon as you can. Sir, this is judge andrew monahan. I'm sorry to bother you at home. I just received a call you might want to be aware of. Do you know a police officer by the name of joss carter? You were right to contact me. Tell me everything she told you. Joss! No uniform. You made detective. What you need, paul? I didn't come here to ask you for anything. I just Just wanted to show you this. Good for you. You look better. I am. I mean, not all the way, but some. The counseling's kicking my ass. Lot of stuff I didn't wanna relive-- Things I did, People I hurt. Yeah, uh, paul, I-- No, no, no. I know. There's no going back. I see that now. But they keep telling me I have to find a way forward, A purpose. That's what I'm working on now. I just wanted you to know that. If there's ever anything I can do for taylor, For both of you, Here's my number. Thanks for hearing me out, joss. All right. Hello? Paul, it's me. Oh, hey, joss. Let me get him for you. Actually, I needed to tell you something. What's up? Thanks. For taking care of him. It's good he can rely on you. That's how it's supposed to be, joss. That's how it always should have been. All right? Hold on, somebody wants to talk to you. Hey, mom. Hey, baby. How's it going over there? Good. Dad tried to make a casserole. We ended up ordering pizza. Y'all are hopeless. You okay? Yeah! Fine. Just driving and, uh I wanted to say I'm sorry. For what? To me You're still my little dude, you know? Sometimes I-I forget You're practically all grown up. These last eight months, I've been secretive, Keeping you in the dark. You're protecting me. I get it. But whatever you're doing, You know you don't have to do it alone, right? You got my back, don't you? Always. And not just me. Lots of people care about you. If you ever need any help, all you have to do is ask. You know that, right? I love you, baby boy. I'll call you tomorrow. I love you too, mom. Okay. Judge monahan, Thank you so much for-- Let's get this over with, shall we? Absolutely. I wouldn't be here this late If it wasn't important, your honor. See, this warrant is the key to our-- He wasn't talking about the warrant, joss. Heard you were looking for me. Figured I'd save you the trouble. I'll spare you the shakespeare quote. You know, I think that's your problem. You see yourself as a protagonist In some great tragedy. Determined to face the world alone. Even if it gets you killed. "to be or not to be," bitch. Move. For what it's worth, I had hoped that we could have avoided this day. At least have the balls to pull the trigger yourself. Don't outsource me like you did your own godson. I don't relish what happened to him, But sometimes sacrifices are necessary for the greater good. My mistake was not having you killed along with cal. Then neither of you would have had to die alone. You were right. I was wrong. I thought I could take you down alone. Always did have trust issues. Tried to do it clean. Photos, Recordings, sworn testimony. But then I realized You're just too dirty. Everywhere I turned, You had friends ready to help you out. And I was alone. So I called some friends of my own. You get all that, fellas? She's not wired. It's a brave new world, boys. Don't you read the papers? Anyone can listen in on your phone. Even when it's turned off. My mistake was not having you killed Along with cal. Then neither of you would have had to die alone. Now, mr. Reese. Everybody, down! Get your ass up here, now! Thanks for the help. Thanks for the call. Where are we taking him? Fed building downtown. The fbi may be the only ones we can trust. Lot of dirty cops between here and there. This will be the last mistake You ever make. Nypd! Get your hands on your-- Where the hell are they? Gone. It's dead. He shot out the engine. He didn't shoot your camera. Get this out on the wire. Our people only. Not just the ones in blue. I want every criminal outfit on the street To have this picture. The man in the suit dies tonight.
You are being watched. The government has a secret system-- A machine that spies on you every hour of every day. I designed the machine to detect acts of terror, But it sees everything Violent crimes involving ordinary people. The government considers these people irrelevant. We don't. Hunted by the authorities, we work in secret. You will never find us. But victim or perpetrator, If your number's up, we'll find you. We know about quinn and what he did to cal. Then you know why he can't get away with it. Where are we taking him? Fed building downtown. The fbi may be the only ones we can trust. The judge has been asking to see you. Do we have a problem, your honor? Do you consider a felony murder charge a problem? Because if that bitch cop and her gun-wielding cohort Get alonzo quinn into federal custody, That's what we'll all be facing. No one is gonna be charged. We have checkpoints on all the roads. They'll never make it downtown. Carter said she had evidence on hr, Pictures, recordings. She has me on tape working with you people. We have a team tossing her place. No one is gonna kill her until we get that evidence. We need to come up with a story. Do you have a firearm in the house? In that far drawer. Fine, what's the story? Robbers broke into your home, they looted the place, And shot you. Ugh! Old man would've talked. He's got state's evidence written all over him. Get rid of this. Bring me officer carter and alonzo quinn alive. And if quinn gets so much as a hangnail, I will come after you. Do you understand? What about our pal in the suit? I should've ended him a long time ago. Tell our friends, shoot to kill. Shadow. Victor. Bravo. Time. November. Whiskey. Flight. Uniform. X-ray. Close. Delta. Foxtrot. Know what happens if you try anything? I believe I can fill in the blanks. We're not stopping until we get you To the fed building downtown. So don't die on us, you hear? You keep forgetting, this is my city. There's just two of you. Eh, we won't be outmatched for long. Finch is sending the cavalry. Wouldn't kill you to clean up every once in a while. Why? I got you as a maid. Oh, yeah? Well, the maid's gotta go to work. Mrs. Olson is gonna Drop in and make sure you're okay. Nice necklace, dad. It's a key, smart guy. Friend of mine's got some information On some very bad guys, and I'm keeping it safe. Sure that's a good idea, trusting you with it? Turns out your old man's a pretty tough guy. The bad guys, they don't want no part of this. So how 'bout you mind your own business and get some shut-eye? Good night, buddy. What kind of cop doesn't use a vertical dead bolt? What the hell? Where'd you come from? It doesn't matter. It's where we're going that's important. Grab your gun, lionel. Let me guess, mr. Congeniality's in some kind of trouble. You could say that. Reese and carter nabbed the head of hr. They need a little help Escorting him into fbi custody. You ready? I don't care who you are, you break in my house again, You're gonna be sorry. I'm already sorry, I'm gonna have to listen To your whiny ass all the way into queens. Me? You know the dog's the only one that likes you, right? Attention, all passengers. Please report any bags left unattended. I'm sorry I got you into this. You get us into manhattan, I'll take quinn To the fed building alone. What is it about you, joss, Makes you want to do everything on your own? What is it about you, john, that makes you want To save everybody else's life but your own? Mr. Reese? Excuse me. I have some very bad news. Guessing this is about a number. Several, actually. It took me a while to realize that they were all prior aliases For one person. You, mr. Reese. Something wrong? No more than usual. check your phone. Hr has put a bounty on your head, And they're distributing this picture. My old chess partner called to inform me His men will sit this one out. That's nice of elias. Yes, but unfortunately, they're the only ones. It appears that every criminal in new york Is trying to kill you. Don't suppose they're just trying to be friendly. That's a nice suit. Maybe we'll bury you in it. Too bad. I just had it cleaned. Something funny? Subway, thugs. Kind of reminds me of the first time we met. Gotta transfer to the "r" train. It'll drop us a couple blocks from federal plaza. May I have your attention, please? Due to an incident at the lexington avenue station, All train service has been suspended to manhattan. Guessing that's not just bad luck. Our friends in blue aren't making it easy for us. Keep moving. Or what? You'll shoot me? That's exactly what I'll do. I'm giving you a warning. That's more than you gave cal. Finch, I need an exit strategy. Finch, you there? Looking for this? You two still believe you're the heroes of this story? My men will have every subway, Train, and road from queens blocked. This ends one way, and it's not with you riding into the sunset. Let's go. Your men are looking for three people. We just need better camouflage. Mr. Reese? Can you hear me? Ms. Shaw, I'm afraid I've lost contact with mr. Reese. Well, at the risk of stating the obvious, finch, You could just ask the machine for his location. I don't speak to the machine, and the machine Doesn't speak to me, ms. Shaw. Well, it speaks to her. I might not know where our friends are, But I certainly know where they're headed. 26 federal plaza, to be exact. Based on their last location, there are two direct routes Into manhattan-- the long island railroad And the b.Q.E. To brooklyn bridge. Hr will be patrolling both spots heavily. So are you saying fusco and I need to split up? Is that glasses? Tell him this is the last time I chauffeur your ass. Divide and conquer, I assume that's all right with you. I thought you'd never ask. Something's wrong with your attack dog. He appears to be the smart one. Why are you still awake? Not bad dreams, I hope. I heard it said once that a pregnant woman May see the face of her unborn child in her dreams. I saw every digit, Every line of code As I created it. But you've changed that, haven't you? You found a way to alter the dna to rewrite the code. Is that how you get it to speak to you? You have the relationship with her that you wanted. She respects that. My relationship is more Intimate. Sorry I asked. Why are you asking? What's gotten you so upset? Is the big lug in trouble? Has his number finally come up? I don't really care for the man myself, But he means a great deal to you. So if you can see it fit To set me free from this cage, I'll return him to you, unharmed. How could I ever let you go When I know with an almost absolute certainty That bad things will happen? Bad things will happen regardless. The question is, Are you gonna let them happen to your friend? Come on, harry. Let's not pretend that john is your first helper monkey. Exactly how many guys did you go through before him? Pleasant dreams. Thanks for giving us a lift. Don't get too comfortable, we'll be at the fed building soon. Petersen, surprised you dragged your ass out of bed. I was told there was a chance to shoot people. Imagine my disappointment, suit's a no-show. Probably laying low. Doubt he's gonna stick his head out again. Our pal stormed a judge's house. Subtle he ain't. He's hiding, all right, but you can bet it's in plain sight. Fusco? I haven't spotted our friends, But I'm not the only one looking. Yeah, hr's got a checkpoint at the brooklyn bridge too. No sign of our people. Hope they find their way out of dodge. Get us through, You can go about your night. Got a bus coming. Come on. Hey! Hey, stop that ambulance! I'll take it from here. Any luck finding our friends? If you mean by "luck," helping them escape an hr checkpoint And bully their way into manhattan, then yes. Lionel? Detective fusco, are you all right? Game over, lionel. What do you want to do with him, boss? I got a few ideas. Reese and carter broke through hr's roadblock into manhattan. They're on their way to the fed building. I heard. Thanks to detective fusco. Unfortunately, he wasn't so lucky. I can find him, but it might not matter. Might be dead by now. Remind me to hire an optimist next time. Even an optimist can't be two places at once. So what'll it be, finch? Detective fusco is currently without any aid. Reese and carter will have to make do on their own. Locate the detective. The hell am I? Someplace no one will hear you scream, Since you'll be doing a lot of that. Meet your new best friends. Petersen, right? Always remember a pretty face. How about this? Look familiar? You emptied my pockets. Think there's some lint in there too. You're a funny guy, fusco. Must have had your ex-partner in stitches. When's the last time you saw carter? I don't know. Let me check my day planner. We know you met with carter tonight. She handed you something, looked an awful lot like this. What does it open? See, carter has information on our organization, Hidden it somewhere. From the size and shape of this key, I'd say it opens up a safe deposit box. It's my locker at the "y." You're welcome to my dirty jock. Hey, fusco, want to know your fortune? Huh? "you will be unusually successful at your career." You know, I don't think that one's true. "a thrilling time is in your future." We're getting close now. Oh, here we go. "tell your friends what they want to know, Or they will break you apart limb by limb." That's more like it. So what's it gonna be, fusco? Courtesy of the driver. He's gonna have one hell of a headache when he wakes up. I did say I was sorry. Fed building's just four blocks up. Looks like we're late to our own party. We'll have to go in on foot. Let's go. Come on. Hey, hold up. Come on, come on, come on. Move! 'sup? We gotta get off the streets now. In here. Finch, could use a little help here. Mr. Reese, where are you? Not my final stop, I hope. City morgue, downtown. Go ahead, make yourself at home. Hr has gangs patrolling the street. Can you send lionel to pick us up? I'm afraid detective fusco has been apprehended by hr. Chances are, they're planning to use him For leverage, or worse. I've asked ms. Shaw to locate him. They got fusco, didn't they? Don't worry, shaw will find him. And if she doesn't? Nope, no sign of our boy. Mm-hmm. Oh, damn it. Ow! No! You know that's not real meat, right? The hell-- who are you? Concerned citizen. Our police force Should really be filling up on something more Substantial. Now I want you to call your pal simmons And find out where he's keeping detective fusco. I--um, I don't know what you're talking about. Do it now, or I lose the pin to this grenade Permanently. You don't understand. You might kill me, But I cross simmons, He'll hunt down my wife, My sister. He won't stop until everybody I love is dead. Please. Wait, I need that pin! Ugh! Ah! Federal plaza. Four blocks and only 15 rounds of ammo between us. And who knows how many guys Hr has hiding in the shadows? So we wait until sunup. Less likely they'll risk taking a shot at us in broad daylight. Still haven't learned yet, have you? There's no place you can hide, no place my men won't f-- What was that? A sedative I think. Any ideas where to put him? Let the man rest in peace. See, I told you we'd have you screaming. Where is the safe deposit box? Just tell him, get it over with. That the best you got? No. You know us, lionel. It's gonna get so much worse. What are you gonna do, read some more fortune cookies? Huh? Bore me to death? See, that's the problem with you, fusco. You never listen. It's like talking to a child. You have a kid, don't you? What's the little guy's name? Lee. I feel sorry for that kid, I do. He's got defective genes, just like you. You touch him, and I'll send you to hell. Is that a promise? Huh? Because when I make a promise, I keep it. Where's the safe deposit box? Which bank? Or I kill you and your kid. You know what? Put the kid out of his misery Before he turns out like his old man. Okay, okay, okay! Bank's in hoboken, jefferson and 9th, But it won't be open this time of night. Oh, they'll be open for me. Sit on the kid while I get a warrant, Make sure he's telling the truth. Keep an eye on detective fusco. What do you got? I got a line on the man in the suit. Thought he gave us the slip. Then we saw this. He's holed up with the stiffs in the city morgue. Good, saves us the trip. Rally the troops. Care package for the road? and some assorted tools. You do realize we gotta kill hr before we can autopsy them. Apply the right amount of force, this can do some damage. Hezbollah surgeon. Would've cut right through my axillary artery. Fallujah. of a marine escorting me. One minute, we're walking on patrol, And the next, I hear a click. Land mine? Guy looked right into my eyes, then he was dust. Never saw it coming. When your time is up, it's up. That was a close call. Yeah. Was that your closest? How'd the other guy fare? Touch and go for a while. It was a c-section. Taylor was breech. Doctors weren't sure if he was gonna make it or not, Had to rush me into surgery. It was the worst moment of my life, Followed by the best. What about you, john? What was your closest? That's got somebody's name on it? Mine. There was a time I thought about saying good-bye. Lost someone. Lost myself. What happened? What stopped you? I got in a fight with some punks on a subway. Cop detained me. He brought me to you. You changed my mind, joss. You changed me. Mr. Reese, I have some alarming news. I've been monitoring the police scanners. Someone has reported suspicious activity at the morgue. I suggest you leave by the southwest emergency exit. Doesn't look like we're gonna be leaving anytime soon. We're surrounded. Next, they'll lock down the building, Seal us off from witnesses, everyone. Hr's moving in for the kill. Here we go. You three, flush 'em out. Hey, what's going on? We got some reports, Some vandals have broken in the back, sir. Reports? From who? It's just me. Cuff him. Hey, you can't do that. Make sure the rent-a-cop keeps his mouth shut, And watch the front. Think that'll hold 'em? It's gonna have to. Spread out. They're here somewhere. Breakfast. It's 4:00 in the morning. I may not be back in time. I may not be back at all. I can't imagine what it must be like for you. After all this time, to have to let go of your creation. The machine is still sending us numbers, ms. Groves. I wasn't talking about the machine. John. It's not too late. I can help you stop whatever's about to happen. Please let me help you. Good-bye, ms. Groves. I understand. I hope someday you'll trust me. I'm so sorry for your loss, harold. Checked out the bank. Good news and bad news. Bad news is fusco lied. Good news is you get to kill him. Sounds fun. What about the evidence? We still have the key. Only a matter of time before we find the right bank. And the kid? Look, I'll tell him where it's at, I swear. Look who finally wants to talk. You tell fusco I made him a promise, and I keep my word. Waste 'em both. They're tossing rooms. Won't be long until they find us. Check the supply closet. Might be some chemicals that'll come in handy. John? John! John! Don't do this! I'm sorry, joss, but I can't lose you. They'll kill you. They'll try, I'm counting on it. Listen, I'm gonna draw them out. You make a run for it with quinn. Anything happens to you, I swear, I'll hate you forever. You're stuck with me, remember? You make sure quinn gets what he deserves. See you on the other side. Hey, you got the kid? Yeah, I got him. His piece-of-garbage dad lied. You know what to do. I don't care what you do to me, just let my kid go. Tell you what, I'll let you say your good-byes. Put the kid on the line. Let fusco listen in while you do it. Last words, make 'em count. Dad? Lee? Lee It's gonna be okay. I'm right here with you, okay? I'm right here with you. Just close your eyes, all right? I love you. It's gonna be okay. Lionel. It is gonna be okay. Lee is fine, but the guy they sent To kill him isn't doing so good. Figured these scumbags would come after your kid. Thank you, thank you. But, lionel, You understand this means I can't be there for you. I had to choose. Figured you'd want me to come here instead. Yeah, you did good. You did good. I'm sorry, lionel. Looks like your fortune's run out. Never did have very good luck. Turns out neither did officer miller. My friend killed him. My boy is fine. Doesn't change your fate. I got a full mag. The only question is where to shoot first? Ever kill someone, petersen? Not recently. Can't take down a group of bent cops Without having casualties. Someone was always gonna end up in a casket. Truth is, guys like you and me, We're all gonna catch a bullet sooner or later. Best you can hope for is someone to hold your hand While you bleed out. Oh, that's sweet. You want me to hold your hand, fusco? Oh, I forgot, we broke your fingers. Yeah, you did. Which made it no big deal for me to break my thumb. Can I help you? Officer simmons said you might be in need of my assistance. Yeah? Who are you? I'm the guy that's gonna catch you when you fall. Oh! Sorry, I'm not very good at this. I know they're here. Find 'em! There he is! Shoot him! Ah! Son of a bitch. Come on, come on. Follow me, damn it. Finch, I'm out of bullets and out of time. Make sure carter gets to safety. Will do, mr. Reese. Detective carter, the area is clear. You are free now to exit the building. Hey, wake up. We're checking out. Come on. Hold it right there! Do you have a weapon, sir? Are you armed? Mr. Reese, are you okay? Yes, I am. Got a tip that a man matching your description Was brandishing a weapon. I somehow managed to locate two of nypd's honest cops. You have the right to remain silent. Anything you say can be held against you. Do you understand? I assumed you'd prefer incarceration to death. I do, and thanks. You'll never get a conviction, not in my city. This used to be your city. Not anymore. Officer carter. This is alonzo quinn. New york city's police department Has been rocked this morning With the arrest of alonzo quinn. Alonzo quinn has been booked On suspicion of being the ringleader of hr. Police are still searching for officer patrick simmons, Who they believe is quinn's second-in-command. Congratulations, detective. It is detective again, isn't it? Can't say I miss the uniform. It seems john doe is being held at the third precinct. My lawyers are trying to extricate him. Let's just hope john can stay out of trouble for a long while. Or has your computer told you otherwise? What did you say? How else could you know When someone's about to be in trouble? I just figured you built some sort of supercomputer That can siphon information from government feeds. I'm impressed. I am a detective. Speaking of which, duty calls. I'll drop by the third, Make sure our friend gets released. I'd appreciate that, joss. Shouldn't you be at work? Nice to talk to you too. I'll be in later. Keep my seat warm. And, uh, nice to have you back, partner. Glad to be back. I'll see you soon. Chip off the old block, huh? Looks like he's doing okay. You, on the other hand, look like crap. Heard you took a bullet. Yeah, stupid bastard shot me where I had plenty of padding. Would've gone for the head shot myself. Course, you got plenty of padding there too. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Thank you, truly. Shut up and drive, lionel. I'm carter. You didn't give us a name. Seems like the only time you need a name now Is when you're in trouble. So Am I in trouble? Got your man locked up, carter. Must feel good. Not all of them. Still haven't been able to locate our pal simmons. Can't hide forever. We'll get him. All right, where's my weapon? John doe didn't have a permit. Your gun's property of the nypd now. Time I got some new hardware. Looks like your ride is here. Guess we were all worried about you. If my number was up, I'm just glad I was with you. No one I'd rather be with at the end. Your time's up. Told you I'd end you. No, not today! Joss, joss, I'm here. It's okay. I need-- I need to see my boy. I need to tell him-- And you will, and you will. Just stay with me. P-promise me you'll look in on him. I won't have to 'cause you're gonna make it, okay? Promise me you'll tell him. He knows, joss. He knows. John Don't let this-- Joss--
I hurt myself  today  to see if I still feel  I focus  on the pain  the only thing that's real   the needle tears a hole  the old familiar sting  try to kill it  all away  but I remember  everything  what have I become?  my sweetest friend  everyone I know  goes away  in the end  and you could have it all   my empire of dirt  I will let you down  I will make you hurt  I wear this crown of thorns   upon my liar's chair  full of broken thoughts  I cannot repair  beneath the stains of time   the feelings disappear  you are someone else  I am still right here  what have I become?  my sweetest friend  everyone I know  goes away  in the end  and you could have it all   my empire of dirt  I will let you down  I will make you hurt  if I could start again  a million miles away  I would keep myself  I would find  a way I read that it works this way-- That the therapist waits Until the silence becomes so unbearable That the patient is forced to speak. It can work any way you want, mr. Wren. Is there something particular you'd like to talk about? Grief. I'd like to talk about grief. Of course. I wanna know how it works, if it has a purpose. That's a big question. It might be best if we talk About your specific circumstances. Have you lost someone? My closest friend. There was an accident. I was with him. I'm very sorry, mr. Wren. Do you have someone to comfort you During this time? I was in a relationship, but that's over now. The emotional fallout from these types of traumas Can be extensive. Which brings us to your question--grief. Whether it has a purpose. AnEvolutionary purpose. I mean, I find myself reevaluating choices that I've made, Things that I should have done differently Or better. As if in losing everything, I finally understand. But then it occurs to me that-- It occurs to you That this feeling might be temporary. There's a false sense of lucidity That often accompanies grieving. I've been thinking about doing something radical As a tribute to his memory. I would caution against that, mr. Wren. I see this so often. I've been working with the survivors Of the ferry bombing last year. Their trauma is similar to yours. More extreme, of course. Many of them experience a sense of responsibility For what happened. Survivor's guilt. I'm familiar. Well, then you're also familiar With what I'm about to say next-- That you think your friend's death was your fault. Otherwise, you'd have to face a very painful truth. Which is what? That you are not god. You don't control who lives or dies. That powerlessness also means That your friend's death is not your fault. I assure you, mr. Wren, In time, the guilt you feel Will pass. Let me ask you a question then. Does survivor's guilt pass When everything that has happened Actually is, in fact, your fault? You look tired, harold. Please talk to me. I have nothing to say, ms. Groves. I offered before. Let me help you. It's a little too late for that, Don't you think? Not for john. He's in trouble. I can tell by the look on your face. And I don't want to sound Unsympathetic, harold, But we have much bigger problems at hand. Whatever your machine was trying to prepare me for It's coming. Yes, detective? We got a big problem. I heard the call on the radio. Someone t-boned him then interrogated him While the car burned. Guys in the front might make it. Guy in the back may make a good bag of charcoal. Witnesses put our pal, the psychopathic vigilante, At the scene. Which one? You mean both your stray dogs are off the leash? This was the handiwork of tall, dark, and deranged. And I shudder to think what the other one's up to. I have reason to believe that one or both of them Are looking to track down and kill simmons. We all want simmons. Piece of crap killed my partner, then went after my kid. But the scorched earth campaign is only gonna make Simmons harder to find, not easier. Who were they? Dirtbags of the highest order. Run drugs, underage hookers. And a lot of paper. Paper? Yeah, counterfeit bills. I.D.S, passports, for a forger named yorke. We'd better find mr. Yorke then. HeyGet me down. Come on. Take me down, you bitch! I told you everything I know. And somehow, I just don't believe you. Hey! Hey, hey. Hey, guys, call the cops! You wanna take a crack at him? My gun hand's cramping. Guy's not looking so good. Did you break his legs? Nope. Reese did. Got to him before I did. Dropped him off the roof of the building. I found his sorry ass in the parking lot Yelling for help. Still got his arms, though. Did you see reese? Gone by the time I got here. We have to stop him. Why? One less dirty cop-killing cop Sounds good to me. Setting aside your somewhat Binary moral compass, ms. Shaw, You should know that mr. Reese's injuries Are life-threatening. All right, harold. We'll play it your way. But if reese doesn't wanna be found, Our only way of tracking him Is by finding simmons ourselves. Guy give you anything? Speak up! The only one who knows Simmons' exit strategy is his boss, quinn. And if you're looking for him, get in line. Everybody wants him dead. Can I go to the hospital now, please? You got an inside track to the feds? We gotta get to quinn before reese does. Are you kidding? Quinn ran a bunch of corrupt cops. Feds aren't talking to me. I know one man who will know quinn's location. After his arrest, quinn retained jimmy ransone-- High-dollar criminal defense attorney With a questionable reputation. But even suspects in protection Are allowed to see their lawyer. Wait a minute, come on, guys! Get me down! Aw, come on, get me the hell outta here! I'd say our boy's come and gone. Finch? We got a problem. You couldn't find mr. Ransone? We found what's left of him. Someone used him as an ashtray Before putting a bullet through his head. Reese has really gone off the reservation this time. No. Reese doesn't even smoke. He would have just used a lighter. ThisIs theatrical. Amateur hour. Well, at least we know he's still alive. How badly is he injured, ms. Shaw? He doesn't look so good. We don't have much time. Reese leaves, and five minutes later, these jokers show up. Russians. It figures. Quinn turned state evidence against them. So now both mr. Reese and the russians Know where to find alonzo quinn, And we still don't. Ransone is the only one That can tell us where reese is going. Not the only one. Who? Harold knows who I'm talking about. We're running out of options. We need root. We need to discuss the loftin case. Caucasian male, 83, presented with acute pneumonia. I know the case, dr. Shaw. I also know about your interaction With the loftin family. You walked into the waiting room Eating an energy bar And proceeded to tell the loftin family That their father was dead. Because he was. And, presumably, you were hungry. You managed to revive mr. Loftin four times In 90 minutes. You went to truly heroic measures to save their father, And yet, all the loftin family will remember Is the doctor who gave them the worst possible news While she was eating a candy bar. Let me ask you this: Do you care if your patients live or die? Of course. But does it hurt you? I've been watching you forSome time, And it doesn't seem to bother you. This place is filled With doctors who don't care if their patients live or die. No, this place is filled with doctors Who pretend they don't care. But you're different. Aren't you? Your attendings all say the same thing about you-- Technically brilliant. Remarkably calm. They can't spot what you really are. And what's that? You know the dsm backwards and forwards, doctor. You probably diagnosed yourself in your first year. A diagnosis which meant that you Never should have been accepted into this program. I watch the others. I watch the fear creep into them. I watch them make mistakes, And you think these feelings That I'm lacking make them better? You'd really rather have one of them working on you Instead of me? Yes. Because if If the only thing motivating you Is technical mastery, When one of your patients needs you the most, ThenThis job just might start to bore you. That's the difference between fixing and healing. You have a brilliant mind, sameen. And you're very gifted. But you'll never be a doctor. Time's up, harold. This is not something we should go about lightly. It's the only way. There will be larger consequences If we make this decision-- we need to be ready for that. John isn't gonna make it if he winds up in a crossfire Between a bunch of feds and organized criminals In his current state. I know this is our only option, ms. Shaw. I just wanna make sure we're prepared For what may happen. I'm in. Are you? I'm guessing that isn't for me. You know, if you told me about the carpooling arrangements, I would have driven separately. Ms. Groves is here to help us locate alonzo quinn. We're close. Turn off the headlights. How am I supposed to see? You don't need to. Steady for another 800 feet. Adjust left when you feel it. Feel what? Harold, grab the first aid kit When we get out of the car, will you? Pull over to the right. Tell me why we're listening to the crazy chick Who kidnapped glasses. In your right pocket, you have 85. The change from your morning coffee run. In your apartment, there's an old photo of your father At the franklin park zoo taken when he was a child. He's feeding a lion cub. Do you know what that cub's name was? Lionel. That's where your name came from. I promise I'm here to help. Just when I think life with you people Couldn't get any weirder, One of you takes it to the next level. Where are we, ms. Groves? May I have a gun now? What's with you and your poor listening skills? NoWay. Then you better turn around. Follow me. And bring him with you. You just shot a federal marshal. Just between us Not my first time. Wait for the light at 12:00. Is that Alonzo quinn. The building has two main exits, Two emergency exits. guard the building, Plus our friend over there Who was scouting the perimeter that we're now inside. Air support is ten minutes out. While the russians aren't here yet, They will be soon. You sure the big guy's here? Pretty sure. Your test scores are good, but I have my doubts about you. You look soft to me. Sir, no. No, sir. See, that's what I'm talking about. Stop with the "sirs." you're green From the soles of your feet to the top of your pointy head. I'm sorry. Were you expecting me to ask about your feelings? 'cause you're about to join men living out on the ragged edge Where extreme actions are required To stop extremely bad things from happening. Are you prepared to do terrible things And then turn it off when you need to? Yes, sir. I am. Could you kill a terrorist Standing 2 feet from his young son? Blow his head off and then walk away While the kid cries next to his daddy's dead body? If those are my orders, sir. Says here your dad died When you were just a kid. Army man too. You're not gonna decide at the wrong time That a child should have a father, Even if that father is a terrorist? No, sir. I'm sorry for going at you like this, son, But I'm the last stop between you And the darkness that awaits you. I need to be sure that you're mentally tough enough For this program. If you spun out, got your brothers killed, It would be on me. Well, you're just doing your job. I get it. I've been through this before. No one does this twice. If you washed out, We wouldn't have recruited you again. I didn't wash out. I've been a part of this program for three years. A very trusted part. In fact, my c.O. Tasked me with finding out Who's been selling the names of our operatives To chinese counterintelligence. Took me a while, but I found him. If only you'd just done your job. You're pretty damn good at it. Who the hell pays for the damage? Get back inside now. I'm radioing pollack. We need air support. Get in. Get in. Sir, are you seeing this? Do we need to call for air support? It's a car fire in queens. I'm not calling air support for that. Rapid response team Standing by on the second floor. Have your men do a perimeter check And report back. Copy that. Russians, feds--I don't care. I just want to know. Who pays for the Damage? You should probably call for backup. You worried some of your old buddies Came to shoot the breeze? Sadly, my men are very good at their jobs. Anybody wants a crack at you, They're gonna need an entire-- Sir. Sir, we've got a situation. Robbins is down, and the hotel doors Have been secured from the inside. Someone's in there with you. Secure the door. Now. Ready team, this is highlight. Spread out to the stairwell. No one gets to three. Expect multiple shooters. Secure the hallways. We're taking the prisoner out now. Looks like I underestimated your popularity. Let's move. No point. The guy who's coming after me Your men won't be able to stop him. Aah! Ah! I made three shooters, maybe four. On my count-- Three, two Sorry But I need a word with the man you're protecting. You just attacked a dozen marshals. Sorry's not gonna cut it. They'll need some aspirin, Maybe a little physical therapy--move. You sit this one out. Simmons I want his exit. Loyalty. That's why simmons came after you and carter. Loyalty. That's how we built this whole damn thing. I'll be damned if I repay that loyalty By breaking it now. Even if you threaten to kill me. You see? That's why you and I understand each other. Now, everything you do is an abomination. But your word Your word is your bond. To your godson. To carter. You do what you say. So do I. I'm not gonna threaten to kill you. I'm going to kill you Whether you tell me or not. No bargaining. In three minutes You're dead. I've killed many people. Never bothered me much. That's why I was good at it. I didn't like them suffering, though. Took me years to figure out How to do it quickly, painlessly. But if you don't tell me, I'm gonna forget all of that. Understand? And I'll make the last three minutes of your life Last forever. Can I please have a gun now? No, and you're really starting To irritate me by asking. As far as root's request for a weapon, ms. Shaw, The situation is becoming increasingly dangerous. Yeah, no kidding! And if she wanted to kill us, I'm guessing she could have done so many times already. Speak for yourself, harold. But fine. Whatever. Take it. Can I have a second one, please? Two guns at once? That's kinda lame. You all set? Let's head up. Too late. Where's she going? Okay, that was kinda hot. I'll watch the front. You should head up. We're almost out of time. Time's up. Mr. Reese. You know what joss sacrificed To bring this man down on her terms. Legal terms. Everything. Yes. So if you're going to kill mr. Quinn, Don't imagine that you're doing it in her name. That's not what she would have wanted. We should have killed him in the first place. Why didn't we, finch? That's not our purpose. We save lives. You save lives. Not all of them. You're dying, john. Let us help you. Let's get him outta here. I'll stay and make sure The feds take this piece of garbage back into custody. We should be going after simmons. Reese got his location. Sometimes you have to make choices, ms. Shaw. We've already lost a friend. I don't intend to lose another--not tonight. I just can't believe we're gonna let him get away. The machine never said reese was the only one Planning to kill simmons. Come on, buddy. Come on, let's go. We've been talking for nearly 20 minutes, lionel, But you've said almost nothing. And I thought we were really starting to hit it off. Look, this is a safe place. I may get paid by the city, But I serve the police officers Who come into my office. Oh, yeah? In that case, I'll take a bourbon on the rocks. Alcohol abuse is common among officers After a shooting. So is sarcasm. How have you been sleeping since the incident? Just fine. You were forced to take someone's life. That's a hard pill to swallow. Even when the shooting was justified. Fine. I encountered the suspect-- It's better if you use his name. Okay. I encountered jules. It was dark, he saw me, Went for his piece, I got to mine first. The end. Well, that must have been terrifying. You could have been killed. Part of the job. Yeah, well, part of my job, Lionel, is dealing with cops Who act tough and end up eating a bullet Because of a cascade Of untreated posttraumatic symptoms. Now, you can hide your real feelings From everyone else, But with me, you need to get real. All right. This is a safe place, right? Doctor-patient confidential, all that, right? Yes, everything you say here is completely protected. Use this time to unburden yourself. Wasn't a good shooting. Well, I'm sure you may feel that way, but-- Ain't got anything to do with feelings. You see, jules shot an off-duty rookie last year. Kid had a baby on the way. But good drug dealers can afford good lawyers, So jules walked. I had been tracking him for weeks, Just waiting to get the guy alone. There he was, Walking out of a bodega, With not a care in the world. No protection either. He saw me. He knew why I was there. I could see it in his eyes. So I smiled at him. Just before I put two in his chest. You killed an innocent man. No. He got the devil's share. TheWhat? That's what you call it when a guy like jules gets his. It's the way the world evens things out. Guy got what he deserved, And you wanna know how I've been sleeping? Like a baby. But thanks for letting me unburden myself. Missed your flight. I told the pilot you weren't gonna make it. So what's the plan, fusco? You gonna shoot an unarmed man? Naw. I got a better idea. Been waiting to do this for a long time. Aah! Carter got you good, huh? Aah! I get it, fusco. I always knew you were a killer. Get it over with, will ya? That's just it. I could've been just like you, A bottom-feeder who turns on his own kind. For what? Money, power? I got lucky. I had a partner. She was good for me. For a lot of reasons. She reminded me that I could be good again too. I could be a good father, a good friend. A good cop. I'm not gonna let you undo all the good she did. Carter saved my life. She--she saved me from myself. Because she believed in me. And I'm not gonna throw all that away On a piece of crap like you. Patrick simmons, you're under arrest. Aah! You have the right to remain silent  there's a color in your hands   can never return, never get back, no   there's a moment in your  Doctor said he's gonna pull through. Lost a lot of blood. I'm gonna go steal some more from manhattan general. Where's root?  there's a color in your hands   can never erase, never rub out, no   there's a power Think he's finally warming up to me. You were free. Why did you come back? Like I said We have a larger fight ahead of us. I think we should be together when that begins. Don't you? Thank you.  never give up, never get soft, no  It's just me, officer. Elias. What do you want? Quinn and I are busted. Hr is dead. Nothing else to do but rub my face in it. That's not really my style. Then why the hell are you here? Well, there remains a debt. Civilization rests on the principle That we treat our criminals Better than they treated their victims, That we not stoop to their level. But, you and I are outliers. We're not really a part of civilization. We're somethingOlder. Which means, of course, That we can do things that civilized people can't. I offered to kill you for detective carter many times. And she always said no. She was civilized To the very end. I don't think she liked me. But I liked her very much. You killed her. So now I consider it my responsibility To fix the particular problem that is you, officer simmons You really think you're gonna be the one to kill me. Ha. No. My friend is going to kill you. I'm just gonna watch.
Time's up. Told you I'd end you. Answer me! Finch, we've got a problem. Reese has really gone off the reservation this time. We're out of options. We need root. I know this is our only option, ms. Shaw. I just want to make sure we're prepared For what may happen. Mr. Reese, we save lives. You save lives. Not all of them. Ms. Shaw. We have a new number yet? No, not at this time. It's been a while. Guess the city's scumbags have been behaving. We could use a little quiet. I don't do quiet. That's why I took this job, and the one before that. Not sure I appreciate being associated With your former employers, Who tried to kill you. It's not like this job's any safer. Speaking of quiet, have you heard from reese? As soon as he was strong enough to stand, He left without a word. Any idea where he went Or when he's coming back? I'm afraid only mr. Reese can answer those questions. Good-bye, ms. Shaw. Whiskey. Just keep 'em coming. Another game, double or nothing? Okay. What're you trying to pull? You think you can hustle me? Come on, man, it's just a lucky shot. Well, your luck just ran out, pal. Fellas, hey--hey. Somebody--hey! Hey, come on, somebody help me! Take it easy, guys! Let me know if this is taking it easy. Agh, stop! I'll be going out for provisions later. Please let me know if there's Anything in particular you require. Just a book from your cart. Top shelf, third from the right. False gods: Pseudepigrapha in the modern age? Doing a little light reading, ms. Groves? I know it's been hard for you, harold, What with everything you've been through. And now even john's left. Still, You really shouldn't take it out on her. I'm sure I don't know what you're talking about. I'm talking About you ignoring her. She has a new number for us. How did you get this? Are you communicating with the machine? I understand why you want to quit, harold. But now is not the time. She wants us to work together. I knew you were holding out on me. Must you do that? So we have another number. I haven't decided. Decided? I didn't think you got to decide. Actually, I do. Okay, well, is that going to happen anytime soon, Or should I be looking for some action elsewhere? Arthur claypool. Something wrong, finch? No, nothing. We should get to work. You're in the hospital's employee database As dr. Anne moore. You sure you don't want to play m.D., harold? I never made a convincing doctor, Even when I was one. No, I think it's best if I stay here And find out as much as possible about claypool. So what are the details on this guy? He lives and works in maryland. Until recently, he was an I.T. Consultant At a software company, Runyon technology solutions. His most recent credit card charges Are at the hospital gift shop. What room's he in? That's the strange part. There's no record of him In the hospital's admissions system. I got him. He's here. Then his medical records must be on file. I found them. According to this, his diagnosis Is glioblastoma multiforme. Brain tumor. Does it give a prognosis? Terminal. So, assuming this guy is the victim, Who would want to kill a dying man? I suppose that's what we need to find out. And how are you doing today, mr. Claypool? I suspect more honeybee than dragonfly. Excuse me? Lifespans. Dragonfly is four months. Honeybee is four weeks. Well, so long as you don't go mayfly on me, We won't have a problem. Are you new? Or have I just forgotten you? You haven't forgotten me. Oh, well, give it time. My mind, it's like a computer with a corrupted file system. I know I want to remember something, And I go to open the file, and then it's just gone. And then, the next thing I know, Memories come flooding back And out of me like a loon. Including a few that really shouldn't. And what memories are those? Mr. Claypool? Have you hard-coded the essential values? I'm sorry? We must check the database After every operation. Excuse me, doctor Moore. I haven't seen you on this floor before. That's because I haven't been here before. I just transferred in. From where? New york general. What's your specialty? Clinical oncology and palliative care. What's yours? Let me know if you need anything. Sure. Finch, claypool has a government security detail. What did you say his job was? I.T. Consultant. I realize that's somewhat vague. A maryland address, vague job title, Security detail-- I'd say he's got top-secret clearance or better. He said his tumor was causing memories to flood out of him, Including some that shouldn't. Could be Someone's planning on shutting him up for good. His security detail is using A three-man wedge formation. Meaning what? Meaning they're secret service. Finch Who the hell is this guy? Are they sparrows, dad? Mm-mm-mm. Oh, close. Tell you what. You help me with the truck, And I'll help you with the birds, hmm? Okay. Engine's flooded, And I can't for the life of me figure out why. Where's the socket wrench? I had it right here in my hand. Um, dad? I don't know where my head is lately. Here, you want to try one? Don't lose it. Gonna need every piece. Nothing in here that doesn't have a reason to be. Except the dirt. I'll get that. Sorry, took longer than I-- Look. I'll be damned. But you're not supposed To take things apart like that. You understand, harold? Well, if they don't want you to get inside, They ought to build them better. Okay, son. You held up your end. You still want to know what kind of bird that is? Any progress, ms. Shaw? Claypool's security detail won't leave his side. You find out anything more on your end? No. His minimal digital footprint Tends to support your idea That he did secret work for the government, But it also makes it exceedingly difficult To determine the true nature of any threat. Well, I can get rid of the guard dogs. I just need a gallon of anything flammable. What? Oh, relax, finch. We're in a hospital. Ms. Shaw, I'm sure there are ways To get to claypool that do not involve Any kind of combustion. Fine. But I'll need a partner. You could be a hospital administrator. I'm afraid I'm unable to do that. Ms. Groves is requiring Additional supervision at the moment. Hang on. Uh, claypool has a visitor. A woman, looks to be about his age. Tall, brown hair. Like this? Yes. Thank you. You're welcome. Diane claypool. His wife. Records show they've been married A little over 20 years. No--no. Stop. Honey, please-- Wait, how did you get in here? Arthur, it's me. How did you get in here? The patient's in distress. Step aside. He's not in distress-- just confused. What do you want? Nothing! I'm just here to see you. I don't understand wh-- no, you-- You don't have any authority to be here. I can't listen to you Because this is a secure floor, And you don't have s.C.I. Clearance. You are not at work. Arthur, please, just look around. You are in a hospital room. First of all, who do you think you are To talk to me this way? I'm diane. I'm your wife. You just don't remember. No. No. UhI don't have time for these games. I am on a deadline. I have to fix it. Fix what? Samaritan. It has to be operational before they-- Okay, that's enough. Samaritan? What are you talking about, arthur? They don't think I know What they're gonna do, But I actually do know what they're gonna do. They want to kill it, but I will not let them. I have taken precautions. Just take it easy, mr. Claypool. He is not deceived who knows himself to be deceived. Um, excuse me. I'll--I'll be back. Finch, did you hear that? That seems to answer the question Of whether claypool worked for the government. Yeah, on something called samaritan? The name is familiar. I'll see what I can dig up. Well, I don't think I'll be getting Close to claypool anytime soon. But I can get to the next best thing. Lab technician to o.R. 6. Lab technician to o.R. 6. It's no starbucks, but it gets the job done. I hadn't really noticed. I'm--I'm sorry about the scene back there. Oh. Compared to what I'm used to, it's nothing. I don't know how you do it. Me, I hate hospitals. And now it seems it's where I spend all my time. When was he diagnosed? About a year ago. The signs were all there. I just didn't want to see them. He was getting lost in the neighborhood. He had a change in his temperament. Mrs. Claypool, do you know of anyone Who'd want to hurt your husband? Arthur? No. He was-- is the most gentle man. Why would you ask? His security detail. Oh, them. No. They're just here because of where he worked. And where was that? The national security agency. He would not want me to tell you that, But I don't really see the point in hiding it anymore. Your husband must be a pretty important guy. I wouldn't know. He never talked to me about his work, So I finally just stopped asking, and then We kind of stopped talking altogether. Talking's overrated. I mean, that must have been really hard. Not as hard as realizing the person you spent Half your life with Doesn't even know who you are anymore. And I suppose that's why I keep coming back here. Just on the hope that arthur will remember who I am, Even for a moment, And if he does, I'm going to be there. I'm sorry. IShould get back to work. His security detail is gone. And claypool? Excuse me. Mm-hmm? Where is the patient that was assigned to this room? Oh, he was taken to radiology. Finch, claypool's wife said he was n.S.A. That fits. I knew I'd heard samaritan before. It was a classified n.S.A. Project. Congress de-funded and then shut it down in 2005, Which is clearly the time claypool is living in. Well, if claypool was career n.S.A., Then he'd be read in on all sorts of top-secret information. Information he's now shouting for anyone to hear. Well, I can think of about That would kill for that intel. That occurred to me as well. As did the possibility that the threat may be From his own security detail. To protect the government's secrets. You need to get close to him. Easier said than done. Okay, I'm in. Be careful, ms. Shaw. I have no backup that I can send you. Well, then, I'll be quick. Relax, mr. Claypool. Wait a minute. A syringe in the trashcan? Claypool would have been injected With a radio tracer prior to his scan. It's sodium pentothol. Who has them? Rudy. And where is rudy? This isn't a scan. It's an interrogation. Is everything all right? No. Whoever the threat against claypool is, They're already here. Freeze! Don't move. Ms. Shaw? So much for being quick. What you building there, son? It's an array of floating gate transistors, Configured as a series of n.A.N.D. Gates. It's a memory system. Watch. "d" "a" "d". Now just watch this. "dad." I'm making you a memory To help you remember stuff like turning off the stove, And if I keep working on it, I think I can make it so it can remember All the things that you can't. Now, we talked about this. I mean, what's wrong with me can't be fixed by you Or by anybody else, okay? But what if I build a machine With lots of memory, one that could think? Well, even if you could, Even if you could fill it with all my memories, It still wouldn't be me. You know, not everything that's broken Was meant to be fixed. You understand? Hello? Ms. Shaw? I figured it was you. How'd you find me? I triangulated the phone nearest to your last gps signal. Where are you? Locked in an office. Easton took my guns and phone. I assumed as much, Which is why I've relocated To better monitor the situation. You're here? I'm in the parking lot. Good. While I figure out a way out of this, You can keep an eye on claypool. Um, I think it best if I remain here And try to identify who drugged him. Finch, why-- Oh, I found something. The woman posing as the imaging technician, She avoided the cameras by wearing a hat on the way out, But before that, She logged into the imaging room's computer. An elizabeth ross. We need to find out what she was interrogating claypool about. I couldn't tell. I just heard him say the name "rudy." Dr. Moore. Or whatever your name is. Please. Whoever put this identity together for you Really knew what they were doing. Which brings me to my next questions. Who are you, and what do you want with arthur claypool? Hello, lionel. Finch send you? He's worried about you. Hell, we all are. How'd you find me? What do you think, I won my detective shield In a poker game? Glasses helped a little. Go home, detective. Lionel-- I heard you. You know what? This is a public place. I've got just as much right to be here as you. Fine. But if you're gonna sit here, You're gonna drink and not talk. You understand? Fine by me. Whiskey. Double. Bourbon and soda. Hold the bourbon. So what agency do you work with? F.S.B., m.S.S.? You're wasting your time. You should be protecting claypool. That tech dosed him with sodium pentothol. How would you know something like that? The same way you would, if you'd done any real field work. You know, I can make things very unpleasant for you. Unpleasant? Oh, you service boys are so polite. Look, whoever came after claypool Didn't get what they want. They will try again. You all right there, dudley? You don't look so good. Finch Any chance you spiked The secret service guy's fried rice? No. Then we have a problem. Indeed. I think I've identified the threat to claypool. As a longtime employee of the n.S.A., He'd be a prime target for anyone obsessed With exposing the government's secret surveillance operations. And then I remembered the technician's name. Elizabeth ross. A name shared with a hero of the revolutionary war, More commonly known as betsey ross. Revolutionary war? I'll give you one guess who that might be. Vigilance. And they're here. It's collier. Doctor? Why do you have a gun? What happened to his guards? We have to go. Why? Because there are people coming after your husband. What kind of people? The kind you need a gun for. Grab his clothes. Mr. Claypool. Wake up. Huh? What? You need to come with us, sir. Why? Where are we going? To a nicer room. No, I don't want a nicer room. Sir, sir, you really-- just listen to her. Just listen to what she tells you. Who are you? If we can get you out of here-- What are you doing with my clothes? Let go of me, both of you, Or I'll have you removed! He won't come with me, harold. Please calm down. Harold, I-- arthur, come on. We need to leave. Harold? That's right. Finally, somebody I recognize. How long has it been? Quite some time. Sandra's parents are going out of town. Kegs flowing. What about you, harold? You coming? When was the last time they changed that sign? Why would they need to? Exactly. Paris has a population of 9 million. Who cares? You can't get to paris from lassiter. I'll take you to paris. Allo? Allo? C'est qui? Holy crap. How'd you do that? Tu fais quoi? Dude, that was way too much fun to be legal. Harold. I'm gonna need you to come with me. It's about your dad. So you two know each other? Harold and I go all the way back to m.I.T. The mighty engineers, huh? You should have seen us, two young turks At the dawn of the information age. We were gonna shape the future, Remember, harold? I do. Yes, but so do I. You're limping. Are you hurt? No, it's just an old injury that never healed quite right. This way. You know, Harold was the most brilliant of all of us. If anybody was going to change the world, We knew it would be him. You know, what did you end up doing? What's your field of expertise? Insurance. He's got a gun! Who are those people? Why are they shooting at us? What do they want? You, arthur. Me? What did I do to them? Okay. Okay. Okay, you'll be safe here While I make arrangements to get you both Out of harm's way. Harm's way? Why, are we in danger? Oh, yes, the gun people. What was that all about? Your job, arthur. My job? You did work for the n.S.A.? Not in front of her. Arthur-- Yes, I worked for them. I expect the people shooting at us Knew that as well. They're not trying to kill you, arthur, At least not until they get some information out of you. What information? When you were being scanned at the hospital, The technician asked you who had them. Them. And you answered, "rudy." I did? Who were you talking about? Uh, um I don't know. I'm sorry. That's all right. Why don't you rest? Harold What do you have to do with all this? I just heard that you might be in some trouble. Come on, let's get you settled. You really shouldn't stand so close to the windows. Who are you people? We're the ones keeping you and your husband safe. What about his security detail? Shouldn't the secret service know we're here? Right now, the only people I trust are in this room. You feeling better? Harold, do you recall Arise, ye sons of m.I.T.? Oh, I--  arise, ye sons  of m.I.T.  in loyal brotherhood  the future beckons unto ye  and life is full and good  arise, and raise  your steins on high  tonight shall ever be  a memory that will never die  ye sons of m.I.T. John's gonna be sorry he missed that. Now, arthur, What was samaritan? Arthur. Oh, samaritan is truly a remarkable project. You say it is remarkable. Tell me about it. Its primary function is to detect Potential acts of terror Through analysis of large data sets. Specifically, it will have the ability To anticipate acts of aggression And suggest strategic countermeasures Before the perpetrators can act. It sounds like quite a project. Oh, samaritan is revolutionary. Not so much for what it does, but how it does it. The system was designed to function autonomously, To continually adapt and upgrade itself Through past experiences. You're saying that it can remember and learn. Yes. Harold, it's what we always dreamed of. Samaritan is a true artificial intelligence. You're right, arthur. That is remarkable. Excuse me. Mm. Is he talking about what I think he's talking about? It would appear so. But then that would mean-- That there was a second machine. And arthur built it. Copy that. I found harold, and I'm taking them both home now. Ten-four. Son, he wandered half a mile away from home tonight. What happens when it drops below zero? If you're stretched past the point Where you can give him what he needs, Maybe it's time to find a place that can. I'm sorry, son. I don't know why this keeps happening. I forget who people are, where I am. It's okay, dad. No, it's not. You have greatness in you, harold. Your mind, the things that you can see-- It's not--dad-- And it's wasted here. You should be heading off to college, Not taking care of an old man. I'm not going anywhere. And besides, they're building a computer network right now That's going to connect all the universities in the country. If I can't leave town, I'll bring the information to me. I'll find a way. Careful, son. Don't be reckless. Don't get yourself into something you shouldn't. If they don't want you to get inside, They ought to build it better. Well-- Come on. This machine you built, arthur Huh? Samaritan-- where is it now? Nowhere. Samaritan was destroyed years ago. 2005. Destroyed? Why? Well, after 9/11, the government had everyone And their cat trying to build a system That could watch everything. They came to you as well. Yes. I told them the only way they could achieve What they wanted was to build something That not only watched, but understood What it was watching. An a.I. I know you always said artificial intelligence Was a fool's errand, harold, but I was this close. Close? To making samaritan operational. Truth is, I couldn't get it to work. I mean, I could've, if those pinhead bureaucrats Would have just given me a few more weeks. I know I could have cracked it. And that's when congress shut you down. Well, not just us. All the programs. Stellar wind, tides, genysis, Futuremap, genoa. Within six months, they were all gone. They came for samaritan February 25, 2005. For fear of "violating civil liberties," Or so they said. And you thought there was another reason. The government wanted a system, harold. They weren't just going to give up. They let congress shut us down, all except for that Piece of crap prism, But that was just to throw anyone off the scent. Of what? They'd already found it. Someone else had got there first. And built it. When I said "drink", I didn't mean club soda. Finch appoint you to be my designated driver too? No, smart guy. I'm two years sober. Why? Because back when I was doing a lot of stupid things, Drinking was one of them. And then this jackass in a suit showed up on my backseat And forced me at gunpoint to help him And take a look at who I was. Why'd I quit drinking? You. Don't let it go to your head. Another. What do you think, you're the only one that's hurting? My partner got shot. So tell me how hiding out in your old man's watering hole Is gonna fix it.  the tears rolling down my nose   the sky is crying I saw the sign for the army base about five miles back. I thought maybe this was where you were stationed. Until I saw the picture. And the resemblance. My dad was here before he was deployed to vietnam. Did four tours. He was a bona fide war hero. Was he killed in action? No. At the refinery where he worked. Hadn't even been home two months. That's rough. But what's that have to do with what happened to carter? Nothing. Just proves that no matter what we do or don't do In this world, bad things are still gonna happen. It's Pointless. Irrelevant. How can you say that? You saved lots of people, including me. You're saying that was pointless? All right. Let's go. I'm not leaving. I wasn't talking about leaving.  she was walking on down the street  I'm not gonna fight you, lionel. Hey!  until my poor heart would skip a beat  Come on. Come on.  I got a bad feeling  that my baby, my baby don't love me no more   I got a bad feeling  my baby don't love me no more  Come on.  you know the sky's been cryin'   the tears rolling down my nose  Okay, that should do it. This time tomorrow, arthur and diane claypool Will be henry and elaine mccarthy. I've also arranged a room for arthur At a toronto hospital. We'll leave first thing in the morning. If there's anything I can do-- Enough! I'm sorry, I was just trying to talk to him. Who are you? Why don't you just leave me alone? Arthur, it's okay. No. And you can't keep me here. The truth fears no questions. Arthur, it's me, harold. Harold? And this is diane, your wife. How come I remember you and not her? Because tumors do mysterious things to memory. No. It's like you said. Your file system is corrupted. No. That's not it. I remember diane. Diane is dead. I buried her two years ago, On June 12, 2011. You do remember. Go. I suppose this was inevitable. And seeing as how time is a luxury we no longer have-- Hersh. Perimeter is secure, ma'am. Ma'am? He works for you? As did you at one time, agent shaw. I assume you always wanted to meet me. Control. I was concerned that you might disrupt My attempts to get close to arthur. However, you proved to be quite useful, Saving him from those misguided privacy terrorists And arranging it so I could meet your employer, Who I've heard so much about. By the way, I didn't catch your last name, harold. What is it that you want from arthur? Just information. The location of his greatest achievement, Samaritan. Samar--no. Samaritan was destroyed. I know the official story, arthur. I also know about the drives. So Where are they? I don't know what you're talking about. All right, stop it. He's telling you the truth. He doesn't know. I'll find out soon enough. And since you and I have had the good fortune of meeting, You can help me recover something else That belongs to me. Your greatest achievement. Oh, I'm afraid I can't do that. One of you is going to tell me what it is I want to know. And whoever does Will be the one who gets to leave here Alive.
what do you think--you're the only one that's hurting? finch send you? he's worried about you. she has a new number for us. so you two know each other? harold and I go all the way back to m.I.T. he said his tumor was causing memories to flood out at him. There was a second machine, and arthur built it. do you know of anyone who'd want to hurt your husband? vigilance. I suppose this was inevitable. control. One of you is gonna tell me what it is I want to know. How lucky are we, agent hersh? I thought I was getting arthur's broken toy, samaritan, But you, harold I know who you are, what you've done for us, But since you stole my device, I've been worried its intel might dry up. That's why you've done these terrible things to arthur, Obliterated his wife's identity, stolen her life All for a contingency, a plan "b"? But now you're here. A plan "b" might not be necessary. You can tell me where you hid my program. I don't know. It moved itself. It doesn't answer to me anymore. The first one to talk gets to live. I bet your friend will give me samaritan eventually. Congress shut down samaritan in 2005, Destroyed the code-- it doesn't exist. Of course it exists. Please, I don't understand. you told me you took precautions. Two drives disappeared during the samaritan purge. Where are they? I can't access the right file. Trying. It's corrupted. We'll need some enhanced methods. Agent hersh, do you have some ideas? Mm-hmm. Agent shaw It has been a thrill watching you work. Two to the head, please. And be careful of the blood spray. Arthur! Sorry about the blood spray. I told you, harold--we were supposed to work together. Scold him later, root. Cut me loose. Come on. Let's move. Make a left at the end of the hallway To the service elevator. This way, go. Elevator code's 5228#. Go! Nice to see you again. You're behind the wheel. In the front. Stealing a car, almost dying-- It reminds me of the old days at m.I.T., harold. We got to move. engines are go. You're right, arthur, just like college. where are you off to? I need your help with the tractor today. Got to plow the fields, then you can go see your friends. Dad, we can't, Not today. Where are you taking those bags? I packed them for you. You're moving. You remember the pines? The staff there-- they can take care of you Better than I can. Y-yeah, of course. Of course. It'll just be for a little while, Till I'm done. I'm making something that'll help you. You're still working on that memory thing. Not just memory. It's more of a friend. Maybe one day, this guy will watch over you, Learn from you Protect you. Well, if anyone can do it, it's you. The world spins on dreamers like you, harold. Yeah, I should change, shouldn't I? You know, I'm gonna tell everybody at the pines My son is changing the world. Why does control want the drives to a broken program? The program's only broken until somebody smart fixes it. We should hurry. For all we know, Arthur gave vigilance the location of the drives During interrogation, And control will find us soon, somehow. Arthur, come on. Yeah. Are you sure that you did everything correctly? Excuse me? 'cause if the alarm was not disabled, Then nathan is gonna get, um, expelled. Nathan? His mind has slipped back to 1981, to m.I.T. Our friend convinced us to do a hack, A prank at the harvard/yale game. Everything will be fine, arthur. It was sort of an anti-nuclear proliferation statement. And to impress certain ladies. A rebel and a skirt chaser. No, no, no, no, no, harold doesn't need to chase. He's got a certain gravitational pull With the female population. You know, I think that nathan should be here by now. Arthur. Yeah? Nathan isn't coming. You've drifted away. Nathan-- he's dead, isn't he? Arthur, what control said-- Now, I need you to think very hard-- Was it true? Did you make a backup? Save it, harold. He's closed for business. Of course I made a backup. It's just that that woman Seemed quite dangerous, so I played the tumor card. It was a ruse, remembering to forget. You're growing on me, arthur. Who are you? Never mind. Arthur, we need that backup, even if it's broken. Samaritan is our best chance to ensure your safety. Can you remember where it is? Yeah. It's-- It's with a, uh, dear friend of ours. Arthur's back with us, But I'm worried about ms. Groves. We should have heard from her. Hello, there. How are you, miss may? Call me "root." Of course. And you can call me "control." I believe our interests are aligned. The government can help you escape. Our department can protect you From harold and his friend in the suit. You have been running missions for them, correct? I'm more of an independent contractor. Is that why they committed you to an asylum-- To keep you contained? Seems everybody wants to lock me up. What I saw in the hotel confirms something That I have long suspected. You have administrative access. You have found a way inside the machine. I want you to give me that access, For the sake of your country, And perhaps for other payment. It'd be like giving a five-year-old keys to a jet-- Irresponsible and stupid. Well, that's a shame. I was really hoping to do this The easy way. However There are other options. Hey, rise and shine, wonder boy. Truce, right? 'cause round two won't go so good for you. I'm not gonna fight you. That was very stupid of you, lionel. You should know better than to hit me. You're lucky to be alive. I won my points, holyfield. Are you getting us out of here? You know, throw your weight around? The yokel sheriff of east bumblesquat Can't read an nypd badge. Better get comfortable. This is the place. Our friend has a safe deposit box. The drives are in it. Safe deposit box won't do us much good without the key. Claypool's been rocking footed pajamas for months. I doubt he still has it. I'm afraid we've lost him to his medical alert button. I was wondering why that thing didn't work. Hello? Hello. Can I help you with anything? Yeah, do you have any twizzlers? We're here for a safe deposit box in the name of-- Smoot. Rudiger smoot, box 433. Of course, mr. Smoot. This way, gentlemen. Just breathe. This is fun. In the 1960s, the government experimented With various substances to enhance interrogations. A barbiturate in one arm to knock you out, An amphetamine in the other-- A roller coaster of sorts. You can only take so many rounds of it Before your heart explodes. Shall we begin? Where is it? It is Beyond your reach. You think you're in charge? It's adorable just how wrong you are. Your safe deposit box is just over here, mr. Smoot. who the hell is rudiger smoot? It was a dare. Arthur said I couldn't create a false identity Sound enough to open a bank account. The added challenge was the obviously fake name-- Rudiger smoot. Rudiger? Nickname "rudy" The one claypool was dishing about to vigilance While he was jacked up on sodium pentothal. If he told vigilance the location, we'll soon have Some rather aggressive privacy activists on our hands. Sooner than soon. We got company. They're using tricked-out lasers to fry the security cams. It's vigilance. I'll slow 'em down. Here we are. I'll need your key, mr. Smoot. No one gets hurt! Everybody down on the ground right now! you heard him! Down, now! I'm not gonna tell you again! I've always said banks were meant to be robbed. To the left! Move it! You heard him! Move! Move! All the way back! Keep moving! The cavalry has arrived. Anthony, It's hersh. Get out of there now. Drop your weapons and come out of the bank with your hands up. I'll organize the defensive line. Good. I'll go to the vault. Finch, get out now. Too late. Good luck, miss shaw. You're on your own. They got to let us out of here soon. They're just keeping us in here for a laugh at this point. Nothing wrong with jail. Some of the best vacations I've ever had were behind bars. You're a peach, you know that? How about we just figure a way to get out of here and go home? Home? What home, lionel? You know, I mean, you've never actually Invited me over, but home-- Meaning our friends and that thing we were doing. What is it we were doing again? Helping people, Keeping 'em safe so they could get home to their loved ones. No offense, lionel. I know the whole "being a good guy" thing is new to you, But you're not fooling anyone, And neither will we. We weren't helping people. We were delaying the inevitable. No one ever said we were gonna win, But it doesn't mean you stop fighting. No. I've learned my lesson. It's entropy, lionel, decay. We save someone, they'll still lose, Just tomorrow, not today. And I know that now, Same as I know you'll probably go back To be a corrupt piece of garbage. Water finds its level. You know what? She was the best of us-- Better than me and a damn sight better than you. And she got killed. Where I come from, That doesn't mean you just give up. Hey, skip! We're done here. You're free to go. Do whatever you want. I'll tell finch I tried. Tell finch Thanks for the job. I haven't heard from glasses since last night. That's not like him. He probably needs our help, But there's no point, right? We'd just be delaying the inevitable. elevate her leg. Continue applying pressure. You've done all you can. Keep this. We won't be far. Arthur, follow me. Ms. Shaw, what's your situation? Rock and a hard place. I'd take out vigilance, But they're the only ones keeping hersh out. I can probably handle an I.S.A. Tac team by myself, But no guarantees. We need an escape route, but you have to be careful. I urge you to consider what mr. Reese would do. Brood. As you've said, you're a hammer. Mr. Reese is a scalpel. This requires a bit more finesse. Well, I got finesse coming out of my ass, harold. stay right there. I was wondering when you'd call. This doesn't have to escalate. Everyone can walk out alive. Come on, no need to play games. We both know I'm not a bank robber And you're not a hostage negotiator. If you evacuate in the next If not, your organization ceases to exist. No records, no funerals. You have no intention of letting us leave, But I'm glad we talked. My sources tell me the drives hold intel About a worldwide surveillance system, But judging from your concern, I'm guessing it's something even more explosive than that Something worth dying for. We will expose the abuses our government Has perpetrated. Good-bye, agent. The government wanted an open system. That the n.S.A. Could control Targeting individuals at whim? But it's broken. So there's no reason to be scared. No. Harold Meet samaritan. A.I.--You always said it was impossible, And you were always right about everything. There's something else. "the world breaks everyone, and afterward many are strong at the broken places." A farewell to arms-- that's my handwriting. It's dated February 24, 2005. What does it mean? I haven't the foggiest, but look at my penmanship. It's exquisite. You have the power to make this stop. Help me, please. I am trying to help you. I wasn't talking to you. Tell me, where is the machine? How do you access it? All you need to do is give me your username and password. all of this could stop. Did I say something funny? You're asking all the wrong questions. I Am the interface. If you want to talk to her Just give me a phone. Will this do? I'm sorry. I'm--I'm a bit tied up. You're not gonna get it just yet. How do you use the machine? I don't. She uses me. You view the machine as your superior? No Much more My power, my reason for existing, my friend. The machine looks out for me. I believe you. I believe you have a link to the machine, Anthropomorphic delusions aside. You say you're an interface? Your eyes and your ears are your ports, Input and output? We can put a stop to that. There is a bone in the back of your ear. It's the stapes Or stirrup. It's very small. It's very important. Without it Sound can't travel From your ear to your brain. A stapedectomy Is usually done under anesthesia, But I'm afraid that just won't be the case today. No, please. You say the machine looks out for you? Then why are you in this cell? Why has it let this happen? This friend that you love so much-- it's abandoned you. "time flows outward in all directions." This island-- February 24, 2005 The day that samaritan was shut down. No, that was February 25th. Your note is dated one day earlier. One day earlier. Cafeteria lunch was terrible. Harold. I did it. I solved it before they shut me down. Harold, samaritan is alive. Come on. No! No. I need more power. If they don't want to let people inside, They ought to build it better. Alive? It's not alive, arthur. The project broke me, But humans are broken from the moment of conception. Mutations, defects-- it's all so wonderful. The chance of disaster. We fail, we learn, we fail. My program was too perfect. You're talking about evolutionary algorithms, Genetic programming. That day, harold, I broke it. I forced it to delete bits of itself-- Its code, its blood-- and then reboot. Rebirth Flailing in the dark. A loop, ten times a second, and after ten hours, Harold, 360,000 mutations, it would live or die trying, And it lived. It sparked. It stirred. For 30 seconds, it smiled and then died. And the next day the government shut you down. that's why you saved it. Protecting my child. is this the man with the glasses? You know, since we first crossed paths, I've tried to find information about you, but there is none. I'm quite private. As am I. I think we have a lot in common. I'd like to work together, make a deal. You don't have to die. Civil liberties cannot be forged in blood. Violent revolt is an american value. Do you know the man you're protecting? We believe he's building a secret system, A system the government Plans to put in place to spy on all of us. Now, he must be held accountable. And the world needs to know about this program. Either let us in, or we will blow the vault wide open. And clock's ticking. Ms. Shaw, we're running out of time. Vigilance claims to have explosives. Yeah, no kidding. It gave me an idea. You ever made a pipe bomb? There's a sewer main under the bank. When vigilance blows the vault, This will punch through the supply-closet floor. Then I grab you, and we go down to sewer town Before hersh catches up. This plan feels rather reckless. There's a time for a scalpel and a time for a hammer. It's hammer time. We have your friends surrounded. So, if you try anything, I will have them all killed. And then I will take the ear you have left And then your eyes and then your tongue. Do you understand? You're too late. The machine's already talking. You're too old, older than 40. You can't hear a sound above 15 kilohertz. But I can With the ear I've got left. My friend's been beeping Morse code at that frequency Since you brought your phone in here. She's been talking to me the whole time, Telling me about you. You're scared of me, Even with all these guards watching. By the way, that one has a bum knee. You're so scared of me That you hid a knife in your pocket. I couldn't reach it Till you got close enough to cut me. You still have a scalpel. I'd call that a fair fight. Suit up. As soon as they hit the vault, we're going in. last chance. I don't know if you'll survive the explosion. Give us claypool and his drives. Good day, mr. Collier. arthur. How could I forget? How could I? There are certain unforgettable things, impossible, unerasable. Arthur, I need you to consider what may happen When that door opens, How samaritan could be abused. End this. Destroy the drive. No. This is life Or as close as we mortals come to saying, "let there be light." It is extraordinary, and it is beautiful. So are mushroom clouds, in their own way. scientists Sent a petition to president truman Begging him not to use the bomb, But they had created a demon too great to resist. Harold, this is knowledge. It's what we fought for. It'll just all be lost. No, your knowledge will not be lost. Nathan and I used your ideas. We built it. I was right. There was another project. It was you. I'm not sure that we should have built it. I created recklessly. People died. Your machine-- is it wonderful? Wonderful Yes, and terrible. We saved good people and lost good people. In the end, I'm afraid we've only given the deck a shuffle. Everything slides towards chaos. Your creation-- It brings us poor souls a cupful of order. Your child is a dancing star. It's not my child. It's a machine. A false dichotomy-- it's all electricity. Does it make you laugh? Does it make you weep? Yes. What's more human? But these people outside-- If they get your samaritan, They will hurt it, imprison it, enslave it, And use it to enslave others. Is that the life that you would wish for your child? Good-bye. I'll remember you. Harold, they're detonating it now. It'll cause a shock wave. Get away from the door. Cover your ears and hide. That was better than skydiving. Here. Come on, boys. Go! Go! Go! Go! Go! Let's keep moving. oh. The drives. I destroyed them. They're gone. Well, we've still got you. Kill the others. On your knees. Now! we got to go. Leave him. Go! I heard you might need a hand. Mr. Reese, I am inordinately happy to see you. Forget the shmoopy time. We got to move. Lionel, your face looks good all covered up like that. All right, let's go. Ugh. Ugh. oh, my goodness. That smells horrendous. Come on, fellas, into the muck. We got him. Where are the drives? "the tree of liberty must be refreshed from time to time With the blood of patriots and tyrants." Your guards were no match for her. I'm not gonna tell you anything. You're not talking to me. Hi, there. What do you want me to tell this bitch? Why have you done this? The machine belongs to me. No. I don't belong to anyone anymore. You, however, are mine. I protect you. The only thing you love lives at 254 wendell street, Cambridge, massachusetts. I guard it Same as I guard you. Do not question my judgment. Do not pursue me Or my agents. Trust in me. I am always watching. What do you want? To save you. From what? Save me from what? Hmm. Isn't she the best? Hello, arthur. I'm gonna sit with you for a while, If that's all right. I'm glad you built it, harold. Somebody would have eventually. For all our sakes, I'm glad it was you. Welcome back, arthur. Harold, I'm disappearing. Every time I come back, my memories are fewer. I don't remember the color of diane's eyes. Forgetting is a piercing wound Keen as the first loss. The memories are there, arthur. They're just hidden. I'm sorry I left without saying good-bye. Tell shaw I was touched she came to look for me. Where are you, ms. Groves? I wish you'd listened. We were supposed to help claypool together. Then the drives would've never fallen into the wrong hands. Arthur destroyed the drives. Are you sure? The bank manager, karen wallace? We lost track of her in the explosion. No, harold, they found her body stuffed in a closet. She was murdered just before you arrived. Who was in the vault with us, then? That's my problem now. Please put arthur on the phone. Arthur. Mm? You have a call. The machine has something for you, To send you on your way. Where are we going when you retire? who knows? We may be on mars by then. I'd take hawaii. you've always been so practical, Tethering me to reality when I spin away. you know I love you. I don't say it often enough, but I do. I know. there are a lot of things about you I know. I love you too. Dad? Now listen closely. Men are going to come and visit you. They're going to tell you that I did terrible things, Committed treason. Don't believe them, all right? Do I know you, young man? What's that one called, dad? Ms. Groves picked the locks on the gate And disabled the ankle-bracelet sensors. I suppose the machine told her where I'd hidden them. Welcome home. I'm not staying. I came back to protect you. You're someone the world can't afford to lose. But I lost a friend because of your machine. We trusted blindly, But I'm not so sure he cares who matters and who doesn't. I came back to say good-bye, finch. John, you can't go. I can't stay here. I was able to swap out the drives. Various interested parties think they were destroyed. Excellent work. Did you examine the drives' contents Or tell anyone about them? Absolutely not. Thank you for your service. You have earned my highest esteem. Hmm. My samaritan You are destined for great things.
You are being watched. The government has a secret system a machine that spies on you every hour of every day. I designed the machine to detect acts of terror, but it sees everything Violent crimes involving ordinary people. The government considers these people irrelevant. We don't. Hunted by the authorities, we work in secret. You will never find us. But victim or perpetrator, if your number's up, we'll find you. Your attention, please. Flight 763 to Istanbul has been oversold. Passengers who do not yet have a seat assignment should check with the agent at Gate 39. I'm so so sorry, Mr. Wiley, we've had to bump you. I can get you on the next nonstop to Istanbul tomorrow morning. But I'm told there's a problem with the server. How many bags did you check? No baggage. Oh, here we go. It looks like the system is back up. I see your previous reservation was for a one-way ticket. Would you like to purchase the return leg now? I'm not sure when I'll be back. You're in luck. A seat just opened up on a flight with a stopover in Rome. And it's first-class. Done. - Gate 33, seat 1D. Enjoy your flight. - Thank you. Mr. Wiley, we have some newlyweds on their honeymoon who would really love to sit together. Would you mind changing seats? Sure, Holly. I'll show you to your new seat. Right here. I'll be the attendant in first class. Is there anything I can get for you right now? - Something to drink? - No, I'm fine, thanks. No. No, I told Jerry to walk away. Yeah, well, sometimes you gotta leave the money on the table. You make 'em think you don't need it. Such a gentlemen, thank you. Hey, that's my Tumi that you're sliding over. Try not to smash it. Used to be, people dressed up to fly. Gentlemen required to wear a jacket and tie. Not that a man needs to wear a suit, but Holly? On second thought, scotch rocks would be great. No problem. Don't worry about that. Of course Jerry is gonna listen to me. Because Jerry always listens to me. A victory for the FBI today as they busted a major online drug market. Sir, the forward door has been closed. You'll need to turn off your phone. One sec. Listen, sweetheart, if you ever bothered to pick up a scientific journal, you'd know that all this electronic interference stuff is really just a bunch of BS. So why don't you hop yourself back up there and tell 'em that we can go, while I take my call? Okay. Sorry, Frank, some idiot stewardess. Mind giving me a hand here, Carlos? Sorry, got my hands full with coach. You wanted first, remember? Excuse me, sir? Oh. Looks like he talked himself out. Bet he could use a blanket. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached 10,000 feet. It is now safe to use all approved electronic devices. Gotta hit the head. Did you need something, Mr. Wiley? Just stretching my legs. Oh, guy's been in there a while. Might wanna try the one in back. Yes? Finch? Mr. Reese, where are you? And why are you calling over VoIP? You tell me. You're the one who put me here. We can't keep doing this, Finch. Put you where? Doing what? Overbooking my flight, changing my seat. Are you on a plane? With two Federal Marshals and their transport. I told you. No more missions, no more numbers. While I don't agree with your decision to leave, I certainly respect it. I did not send you on a mission, Mr. Reese. Then who put me on this flight? An incapacitated Marshal with a missing weapon. That definitely does not look good, Mr. Reese. It definitely doesn't look like a coincidence either. You're telling me you didn't get a number? I didn't. Believe me when I tell you, Mr. Reese, I did not put you in your current predicament. Why else would I be on this plane? I can only hazard a guess. You're there because the machine put you there. I guess your machine didn't get my letter of resignation, Harold. Give it a message for me, will ya? I quit. Message received, Mr. Reese. But what do you plan to do about the unconscious Marshal in the lavatory? That's not my problem. A loose firearm in a plane full of civilians most certainly is. You said there were two Marshals. Where's the second? Keeping an eye on their transport. Guy's sitting in 4C, the same seat the machine sent me. It appears there may be an accessory on that flight, one who is now armed. I don't suppose you are too? Even if I were, I wouldn't risk firing a weapon on a commercial flight. Bullet hits a window, plane will depressurize in seconds. So how do you plan to control the situation? I don't. Because I'm not accepting the mission. I'll tell the Marshal what happened to his coworker. Whatever happens next is his problem, not mine. Pow, pow, pow. - Move it, buddy. - Titus, come here. I don't know who this guy is you're transporting, or what he's done Hey, what I've allegedly done. Sir, I'm gonna have to ask you to refrain from engaging with this man. I'm sorry. He engaged with me. No, I corrected you. There's a difference. Your partner's out cold in the forward latrine, and his weapon's missing. Someone may be trying to help your transport here escape. Whoa. What's with the conspiracy theories, Mr. Dark And Stormy? I am not trying to escape. Okay, as much as I love sucking in this recirculated MRSA air, - there is nothing I - Quiet. Look, I don't know who you are, or if you're trying to pull something. But I know this isn't your business. I need you to get your ass up and return to your seat, immediately. You're right. This isn't any of my business. Have a nice day, Marshal. Got a message for you, canalla. - Raphael sends his regards. - Aah! Aah! He just stabbed me. Aah. Is he Drugged. He'll live. Here. Lanceros. Everything all right here? Oh, must've mixed his anxiety meds with his booze. Probably dehydrated. He'll sleep it off. And the Marshal is dehydrated too? Hard for some people to stay awake on a red-eye. Wish I had that problem. - Do you have any more blankets? - Sure. And, um, a couple of whiskeys, neat. Sure, just throw him over there. Hey, don't take this the wrong way, but who the hell are you? A concerned frequent flyer. Here you go. Thank you, Holly. I, owe you an apology. Owen. Owen Matthews. You weren't trying to escape. What tipped you off? Was it my word or the violent psychopath who stabbed me with a syringe? It's a coagulant, to trigger a pulmonary embolism. He wanted to make your death look like deep vein thrombosis. Natural causes. He's a pro. You seem really sure of that. That's what I would've done, on a plane anyway. Here, drink these. It'll thin out your blood. I don't drink hard alcohol, only red wine and in moderation. We've got eight hours before we land this bird. Someone wants to make sure you don't make it off this plane alive. So, you might as well have yourself a couple of drinks. Yes, Mr. Reese? Owen Matthews was the intended victim. I sent you a picture. Perp's got a tattoo. He's a Lancero, Colombian paramilitary. Kinda like our Rangers, only some of them wind up on the cartel payroll. Nothing on the guy's cell identifies his boss. But I'm sure you'll find out. The two Marshals onboard your flight helped bust an online market in illegal substances, called the Black Market Bazaar. Think of it as eBay for narcotics on the dark net. Customers could get anything from a dime bag of marijuana to a kilogram of heroin delivered to their door within 24 hours. Oh, how does everybody stay out of jail? The Black Market Bazaar only accepts Bitcoins, a digital cryptocurrency. The site was developed by an unknown mastermind who calls himself the Sphinx. He's still at large and wanted by every agency from the DEA to Interpol. Transport must know something. Owen works for the company that hosted the site. It would appear that his job has placed him in grave danger. Why were those two Marshals transporting you? Funny story. So, I'm sitting at my kitchen table this morning, having my breakfast Toast, dry. Butter's bad for your heart. Almost as bad as a cartel hit man. Which is no doubt related to Marshals Crockett and Tubbs infiltrating my kitchen to detain me as a critical witness in this black market case. Five hours later, I'm on a flight to Europe with Mr. Blanket Cover-Up to testify in some sort of international court. So what do you know about the Black Market Bazaar? The company I work for hosts the site. But I'm just a programmer. No bonuses, no benefits. They don't even pay for my flu shot. I'm a nobody. A trained killer doesn't just go after a nobody. You better hope he doesn't have any friends on this flight. I'm telling you. They got the wrong guy. Whatever's going on here, I'm irrelevant. You wanted to see me? Would it be too much to ask you to snap a twig? Not my thing. We get a new number? No. But Mr. Reese did. Owen Matthews He's on a plane with him now. On a plane with a number? You engineer that, Harold? I assure you, I had nothing to do with his claustrophobic circumstance, Ms. Shaw. Which presents us another troubling situation. What's going on? You need me to do something you don't want me to do. I need you to visit your former colleagues. The Activity? The people that want me dead. Mind if I ask why? I fear the number that Mr. Reese received is relevant. There's a relevant number on the plane? So what's the other side gonna do about it? That's exactly what I want to know, Ms. Shaw. Perhaps then we can figure out why the machine put John there. Mr. Reese? Any progress on ID'ing our Colombian hit man's employer? I'm afraid not. I had hoped to hear from Ms. Shaw. I sent her to visit her former colleagues with the ISA. The ISA? Why? It was regarding Owen Matthews. Owen Matthews is a relevant number. How long have you known? I don't know anything for sure. I just couldn't figure out why they would consider a mid-level programmer relevant, so I sent Ms. Shaw to investigate. And you didn't tell me anything? Just like your machine, Finch, you have all the information. You just won't share it. Why are you relevant to National Security, Owen? Would you hit your call button? I really want some almonds. You're not a nobody. You're wearing a stun belt. And a stun belt has a remote. Hand it over. Okay, but I'm not kidding about those almonds though. At high altitudes, my blood sugar drops to dangerously low levels Why are you relevant to National Security, Owen? Funny story, I may have downplayed my whole role in the black market thing before. I might be a little more than just a programmer. Tell me about it. I don't like to brag. No, no, no, no. You seem like an angry guy. Do you wanna talk about that? I feel like you wanna talk about that. Okay, okay, okay, okay, fine. The Black Market Bazaar I built it, okay? I'm a really good designer, and the Sphinx asked for me personally. He even brought me this coffee that is so hard to Hold on, hold on. You've seen the Sphinx? Yeah. Smart guy. A little misunderstood, but he has a vision. - Enlighten me. - He started the site because the war on drugs was already lost. Cartels, corner boys, turf wars The site just cuts out the middle man. For a price. A small transaction fee. No harm, no foul. And people stop killing each other. Ever occur to you that the Sphinx might be the one who wants you dead? What? No, we're pals. Why would he want to kill me? Because you, my friend, might be the only one who can identify him. Yep? I've identified your Colombian hit man's employer. Raphael Hernandez cartel kingpin and one of the Black Market Bazaar's largest suppliers. I still can't find Raphael's connection to Owen. No need. Owen built the entire site. He can identify the Sphinx. Which means he could also identify all the Sphinx's accounts. And if Owen testifies, he could jeopardize Raphael's business as well. None of which explains why he's relevant to National Security. Let Shaw worry about that right now. You and I need to find out if this Colombian hit man has a partner in crime. Hey, where you going? The ride's getting pretty bumpy. They're gonna turn the seat belt sign on any second. Sorry, Owen. Gotta let you fly solo for a little while. But I'm like a sitting duck. That's the idea. Hello, Holly. Could I get a glass of wine for our friend in the back? He's afraid of flying. Yes, of course. Is everything okay? Fine, it's just the Marshals, one of them's out cold, the other one hasn't come out of the lav. And you look like a nice enough guy, but John Wilkinson. Department of International Homeland Security. International Home What? Do I need to update the Captain? Oh, no, no, no, you can't. Right now, everyone on this plane is a suspect. And I need your help. Help with what? Keeping everyone calm, preferably asleep. Lights out, lots of decaf. Okay, I can do that. Anything else? Keep an eye on the suspect. If he gets up, just hit this button. It'll summon me. Ladies and gentlemen, the Captain has turned on the fasten seat belt sign. Everyone should return to their seats and remain seated with their seat belts fastened. We control the price of X, not the Sphinx. Aah! I guess the honeymoon's over. Oops. We were just closing. Of course you were. Because who the hell uses a travel agency anymore? I must've gotten 100 itineraries from this place, but I never actually thought it existed. The activity bothers to keep a storefront with posters and dead plants, charming. I'm afraid I don't know what you're talking Oh, you're right to be afraid. 'Cause I've done a little reverse engineering since Catalyst tried to kill me. Made a list, checked it twice. Who's naughty? Who's nice? And you definitely haven't played nice. It's nice to meet you in person, Foster. I'd introduce myself, but you already know my name. Say it. I'll wait. - Shaw. - Good. And my partner? Cole. And you're the facilitating son of a bitch who sent us to New York from Berlin. You booked the reservations, but I'm the only one who made it back alive. I don't know what you're talking about. What I'm talking about is you're the one person who knows where every ISA team is dispatched. You book their travel. You sent a team of six after us. And the next trip you booked had us coming home in a casket. Except I'm still here. So, Mr. Facilitator, when was the last time you were out from behind the desk? The way I see it, you owe me a favor, and I'm calling it in. Owen Matthews is on a flight to Rome right now. Why is this man relevant to National Security? You play dumb with me one more time, I'm gonna make you eat this tie. Except right before you digest it, I'm gonna pull it back out and we're gonna do this all over again. I never know what the target's done. I just know that they sent an operative. Give me a number. Indigo Six Alpha. Heard a ruckus. Everything okay? Newlyweds decided to join the mile-high club. First-class problem. This one's all you. Let me help you. Let's get you patched up. I should notify the pilot. - What if those people wake up? - They won't. I borrowed some sleeping pills from the nice older lady sitting next to me. Look, I have to take this. Can you keep an eye on Owen for me? Colombians aren't the only ones who want Owen dead. A couple of ex-Mossad agents aren't too fond of him either. I don't suppose they told you why. Something about the price of ecstasy, and then they stuck a fork in me. A fork? Any idea why they went after Owen? Israeli criminals control Europe's MDMA trade. I can't imagine that they would welcome competition from an online drug market. I'm starting to wonder who on this plane doesn't want Owen dead. I'm afraid Ms. Shaw has more bad news. ISA has an operative on the flight, Indigo Six Alpha. Did you ask your contact what that means? Didn't have to. I was Indigo Five Alpha. That guy has my old job, and he's there to kill Owen. You get the operative's description. Tall, dark, badass in a suit. Sound familiar? Gotta go. Excuse me. Have a seat. Whoa. I need the zip ties you keep for unruly passengers, a blanket for this guy, and a shot of whiskey. - For who? - Put it in his sippy cup. One finger. I have to go to the bathroom. Why don't we go find your mommy? Owen? The Captain says we can't divert. - There's nowhere to land. - Breathe, Holly. - I can't. - Then drink. I could've been a teacher. But no, I wanted to see the world, meet interesting people. There's plenty of interesting people on this plane. All trying to kill each other, which I get. 'Cause you know what this job has taught me? - That people are horrible. - I know what you mean. Even the pilots call me "Sweetheart," "Doll face." And the other flight attendants? Carlos is a selfish idiot who doesn't know what the hell he's doing. What ever happened to people helping other people? Holly, I hate to tell you this. You're good at your job. That's so nice of you. Thank you for that, and for saving me from that maniac. He was just trying to kill Owen. Where is Owen? How did he disappear? He didn't. Hey, guys. I wasn't trying to escape or anything. I was actually trying to sleep in my seat. But I got this terrible pinched nerve in my lower back. It must be sciatica or something. It was like someone was stabbing me in the b You can probably relate to Sorry. Sometimes it's just faster. Why does everyone want him dead? He's relevant to National Security. Right, just like you work for the International Department of Homeland Security. What do you really do? Nothing. I quit my job. Didn't like your boss? I didn't like my boss's boss. Just take us to the cargo hold. And we won't cause any more problems. Good evening, Ms. Shaw. Have you been able to determine why the ISA wants Owen Matthews dead? Working on it. Meeting up with an old friend for coffee. Damn it. Hey. Going through other people's stuff? That's not cool. What are you looking for? A safety razor, maybe hair spray. Dude, your hair looks fine. That salt and pepper thing's like catnip to soccer moms. Go au naturel. Took care of the ISA operative. Still not sure if the machine sent me or if this guy's worth saving. You're scheduled to land in two hours. Ms. Shaw is still in the process of finding out why ISA wants Owen dead. ISA, Colombians, Israelis all want the head of a lowly website designer, instead of a mastermind. See, I hate it when you look at me like that. It's not polite. You didn't just build the site. You know how it works, where the money's at. Okay, look, I'm not a moron, all right? I socked away a few funds, diverted some accounts. Something else you wanna tell me, Owen? Okay, okay, fine, fine. Don't tase me, bro. I didn't just build the site. I'm the guy. You're the Sphinx. I created a business model from my bedroom that revolutionized an international market and cut violence in the drug trade by half. You're welcome. Yeah, people are just lining up to thank you. It's okay. I have a plan. Okay, I have 100 million bucks in Bitcoins. You get me off this plane and past Interpol in one piece, I'll split it with you. Good deal, right? You think you're a mastermind. Hey, that's the media's word, not mine. You computer guys, you build something you can't control. And when it backfires, you won't accept responsibility. What are we talking about here? Have you really made anything better? Does it look like you've stopped the violence? Okay, are we still talking about me? 'Cause it seems like you're mad at somebody else. I thought you got rid of that walking steroid. Guess not. Dizzy? Tongue a little itchy? Shaw. You once taught me that an operative should always wet their lips and wait for symptoms before drinking anything. Scopolamine. Tachycardia will be setting in shortly. Fatigue, amnesia I know what the drug does. You're conscious, but you've been rendered completely docile. I'm on a job right now. You were. Guy with the glasses on the laptop, right? That was the number you were supposed to kill tonight? I trained you well. Too well. I always liked you, Hersh. Even after you killed me. You put an ISA operative on a flight to kill this guy. Why? He built the biggest narcotics marketplace on the dark net billion dollars in sales. You can't stop the drug trade, but you can tax it. Tax it? Since when? We were on to the Sphinx a year ago. But when it comes to funding our operation, the black budget only goes so far. So we took 30% off the top. So why take him out now? Nobody asks how we keep the country safe. But they'll start if that kid goes public. National Security risk. And that flight is a perfect window of opportunity. Well, I think you might have some competition on the plane. Shaw, your new employers Are they treating you okay? They haven't tried to kill me yet. I could've killed you tonight, Hersh, and I didn't. Too bad you won't remember any of this. Whoa. Not the face. Aah! Fore. Nice shot. Mr. Reese, it seems that the ISA took a mutually beneficial financial interest in the Black Market Bazaar, which they could ill afford to have come out. It still doesn't explain why the machine put me on this plane. I didn't program the machine to detect national embarrassments, Mr. Reese. I designed it to prevent a national tragedy. You're saying they missed something? They aren't the only ones who want Owen dead. Raphael Hernandez once blew up an entire floor of a hotel in Medellin to prevent a witness from testifying. Well, I already took out Raphael's hit man. I've accessed his email. Raphael has ordered his team to take out Owen by any means necessary, even if it means taking down the plane. Well, how many hit squad members were on that email? Two Colombian paramilitary. There's another Lancero onboard. But I checked the manifest, every passenger. He's not a passenger, Finch. Good evening, Captain. He's lost a lot of blood. If we don't get him to the hospital in the next hour, he's a goner. I heard something, saw Carlos enter the cockpit. It's locked. No response from the intercom. The plane's banking. We're losing altitude. And I can't contact the tower. I knew there was something off about that guy. It's because he's not a flight attendant. He's a professional assassin, paratrooper. He's taking us down. I need you to get me in there, now. He's overridden the code. The situation's critical, Finch. Can you help us? I'm trying to get into the flight management system through the plane's satellite link. - Where is Owen? - Stashed in the cargo hold. I'm gonna need to borrow this. Mr. Reese, I've gotten into the FMS. It appears that he's disabled the autopilot. I can't seem to override the manual operator. You ever flown a plane this size before? Heavens no, props only. This is a commercial jumbo jet. Somebody's gonna have to stick the landing. I'm putting you on speaker. Excuse me. Can I have some water, please? Mr. Reese? Ladies and gentlemen, we're experiencing a bit of turbulence. The Captain asks that everyone remain seated at this time. Make sure your tray tables are up and all seat belts are fastened. Oh, my God. What's happening? Mr. Reese, who's flying the plane? Need a little help, Finch. Oh, dear. Finch, we're going down. Hold on tight, Mr. Reese. Stick and rudder, stick and rudder. Small corrections. Wings level. Aah! Airspeed and attitude. Take us home, Finch. Keep it level, keep it level. I'm coming in too hot. I'm gonna be long. There might be a bounce. You hear that, Finch? That's for you. Yeah, you just stuck this bird. Thank you, Mr. Reese. How about Owen? The only relevant number on this plane is 130 people. Thank you. Goodbye. So what is it you really do again? I help people. You wanna help me get a drink? Aah. Man, do you think you could've stuffed me into a case that breathed? Next time, just throw a garbage bag over my head and stick me in a casket. Here. Go to this address. Stay there until you hear from a man named Harold. Harold? The guy on the phone? You're out of business. Stay off the grid. Do not reach out to anyone you once knew. Well, what if I wanna send you something, repay you for all you've done? I'm not in it for the money, Owen. You almost say that like it's your job, which would be insane. Well, whatever you're in it for, good on you, man. I appreciate you saving my neck. - Thanks for meeting me. - Thanks for the drink. Well, I hope you get a better crew to work with on your return flight. Give me a call if you're ever back in the city. - Ciao. - Ciao. She seems nice. You track me down, Harold? Just flew in to get Owen situated with a new identity and destination. Is that it? Thank you. Mr. Reese, I understand your frustration with the opacity of the machine. But there's a reason I chose to make it that way. The machine only gives us numbers, because I would always rather that a human element remain in determining something so critical as someone's fate. We have free will. And with that comes great responsibility and sometimes great loss. I miss her dearly too. When are you leaving? Soon. I thought I would go see this exhibit at the Giorgio de Chirico house-museum An artist that Grace was very fond of. You're welcome to join me. I'm not sure I can, Finch. While I'm in Italy, I thought I'd get fitted for a new suit. Oh, of course. We should call my atelier in the Via Palestro. See if Gianni could fit you in after lunch. He's the best. I thought maybe I could hitch a ride back with you. I'm not quite ready to fly commercial yet, so But I need to get back to work. Certainly, Mr. Reese. I know the pilot. I think we could delay that flight.
You are being watched. The government has a secret system-- A machine that spies on you every hour of every day. I designed the machine to detect acts of terror, But it sees everything Violent crimes involving ordinary people. The government considers these people irrelevant. We don't. Hunted by the authorities, we work in secret. You will never find us. But victim or perpetrator, If your number's up, we'll find you. This is agent bouchard. We have a suspect in custody But have not recovered the artifact. I believe our thief is still at large. Ah, welcome back, mr. Reese. I see your time in Italy was a sartorial success. What can I say? New suit, new man. New number. Welcome back. I do wish we had time for a homecoming, But we just received one about an hour ago. Meet kelly lin. Born in shanghai, raised mostly abroad, And recently immigrated to the u.S., Or so says her visa paperwork. She naturalized as a citizen six months ago. Is she a spy? Certainly possible. Right now, she's working as a professional Event planner in the city. Based on her international reputation, she's quite good. I found her resume online. Impeccable references. Easiest way to get close to an event planner Is to attend an event. Awol and air travel, and he hasn't missed a beat. Ms. Lin has been hired to run the new exhibit opening At the metropolitan museum of history. A bit of clever computer work Put ms. Shaw on the platinum guest list. I'm a sucker for watered-down booze And a mini-quiche. As a donor who rsvp'd, You'll be my plus-one, mr. Reese. Black tie optional. I'll steam my tux. And oil my-- Finch, where's my spare weapon? I moved it to the history section a week ago. Update your arsenal, john. It appears that the storm has yet to pass, mr. Reese. Will you be needing an umbrella? Only if it doubles as a tactical weapon, finch. I'll give this one to ms. Shaw. I'll just make a dash for it. Hand-sewn button holes, Including one on the lapel. Impeccable craftsmanship. I see that gianni has spared no detail. Oh, I gotta raise my game up If I gotta be seen with you, finch. It's just like a shoelace, mr. Reese. I find that it helps if you practice on a leg Or a collarless neck if you're out of practice. I can field strip a .45 upside down In the dark, finch. I think I can handle a bow tie. Of course. Is it butterfly or batwing? Never mind, take your time. Hate to interrupt this mildly erotic moment, gents, But the invitation advises us not to be late. What? Well, I see you've updated your arsenal, shaw. Oh, I can work it, Along with the .380 I've got in my handbag. So watch it. Can we go now? Special exhibit, finch? A partnership of museums around the world Loaned some of their most significant Cultural artifacts to use in this one single exhibit. Something like that doesn't happen often. Abomination. Misappropriation. Sounds pretty aggressive out there. They believe that cultural artifacts Belong to the cultures they came from. Sounds like a bunch of hippies and art nerds to me. Still, they could be a threat to kelly. She is running the event. Speak of the devil. Kelly, what am I hearing? I've got head of security on my ass About coolers of dry ice in the event space. Yes, sir, I've heard that too. I don't have a p.O. For those. I think it was a shipping mistake. I won't pay for the mistake. I spoke to my suppliers, The museum won't be charged a dime. Plus, they've offered to upgrade Tonight's champagne selection From yellow label to rose. Oh. Well I do enjoy a nice rose. Oh, my. Dear? Finch, there's no sign of danger in here, Not counting the shrimp puffs. That was an impressive move. Saved me having to get paramedics in here. Right place, right time. Do you know who he was? Warren zimm, big-time investment banker. Think, that whole empire down the drain. From one cunning shellfish. Mm-hmm. You know, you have a beautiful accent, And I have an ear for it, but I can't place it. Where are you from originally? I spent a few years in a hong kong, Some international schooling. Since then, I've picked up traces From a little bit of everywhere. Huh. Well, enjoy the rest of your evening. Oh, yes, thank you. Kelly's good in this crowd. Charming, casually evasive. Who would want to put a bull's-eye on her? We don't know that anyone did, yet. Wren, harold. Of course, harold wren and guest. Please keep these on tonight, To show you're all checked in. Oh, my, he's gorgeous. Fancy stuff, fancy guests. A job like this could give kelly Access to all of them, And maybe all of their dirty little secrets. Mr. Reese, do you know what this is? It's the nowell codex. It's over 1,000 years old. Yeah, it's beautiful, but I think We should keep our eyes on the prize in here, Don't you think? Everyone, everyone, There seems to be a problem. Please stay where you are until-- Mr. Reese? I'm on it. Excuse me. Pardon me. Excuse me. Finch, they're dry ice bombs, Packed in airtight coolers with water. And the perfect smoke screen. But who delivered them to the museum? It could be the protestors. I don't think so, ms. Shaw. I think someone's trying To make off with the cezanne. Hey, stop! Got it, finch. Right place, right time? I guess we're both liars, huh? Boys, you're not gonna believe this, But I know who the thief is. I'm sorry, miss, crime scene. Officer, I was just working this event When boom, smoke, chaos. People were running, screaming. I got swept out the door without my bag. Sir, please-- Whoa, miss, it's 1:00 a.M. What can I do to make you stop talking? Let me get my bag. I promise, I won't touch anything Or bump into any of your n.C.C.S.I. Guys, I swear. I remember what table The staff put their bags under. Let me know if you find kelly's. I hope in the rush she forgot it, After she grabbed that painting. I'll do you one better, finch. I got her bag and her computer. Of course, she went for the cezanne. She has good taste. I've been hunting her for interpol For over a year. Female, 25 to 35 of asian ethnicity, I believe chinese. That's all anyone can say, really. No one's ever gotten a good look at her face. I almost had her in dubai six months ago. I came to new york following a passport of hers, Dead end, When I got this call. She's hard to track. She uses accomplices, vagrants that she pays off If they'll do a little jail time. She kills them after, you see? Tell your detectives to be ready. Anywhere this woman goes, bodies follow. You hear that about decoys and dead accomplices? Kelly's dangerous. The guard is still alive. And we haven't seen her hurt anyone seriously yet. But if we received her number, It could just be a matter of time. I already looked, waste of time. Everything on there supports her cover As an event planner: Shipping orders, receipts, that kind of thing. If she ditched it, it's worthless. Maybe it's not about what's on the device, But rather where it's been. All portable devices have gps chips these days. If we're trying to track her down, It will likely be some place she frequents. There, down on pearl street. A bar called, "the purloined letter." That's appropriate. Let's go see who kelly meets for drinks. Given our proximity and the likelihood that Kelly is in that bar, I can use software to bluejack Every phone line in the place. Dude, I'm telling you-- - No. Excuse me, excuse me, can I get a beer, please? No. - But I just can't get her out of my-- No. - I got the painting. Wait, I found her. It's definitely kelly. The guys I put you in touch with, You get what you wanted, the ice? It was where it needed to be. I had to hurt a guard, cyril. He should've stayed out of the way. Your cezanne. Satisfied? Only if you are, milacku. We're done here. Hey. I've been all around the world. So have you. But you're far from done. My associates in prague are appreciative Of all your work. But this next job-- This next job is a masterpiece, jiao. You have everything to gain from it And just as much to lose. Then I shouldn't waste any more time talking to you. She used a key, finch. At least we know she isn't robbing the place. I think I found kelly's apartment-- Only one without a name. In the bar, the man kelly was meeting Called her "jiao." We know that "kelly lin, event planner" is a dead end. Let's take a look into jiao lin. It seems there are a number of sites with data Relating to a former olympic gymnast Jiao lin, who competed for the chinese national team. She won a silver medal at 2000 olympic games. China had a fine showing in gymnastics that year. You remember those games? Sydney, wasn't it? How old was she? Barely a teenager. She was later cut from the chinese roster While practicing in the czech republic For the world championships. No reasons given for her termination. So what happened that turned kelly From a world-class athlete to a world-class criminal? Perhaps we should do a little recon In kelly's apartment when she steps away, mr. Reese. I'm inside kelly's apartment, finch. No sign of our girl. LooksKind of like my place, actually. Kelly's handler spoke of a "last job," ms. Shaw. If kelly's likely to hurt someone, We need to find out when and where The job takes place before it's too late. If I were gonna hide plans For my ultra-slick heist-- Kelly's got street maps of the city here, With an intersection marked. I'm sending you some artwork. It's a narrow side street, Several subway stops in the vicinity. It sounds to me like a good choke point With multiple escape routes. I think we found the location of kelly's next job. That's not all we found. I've got research here, Something about a bible-- the gutenberg bible? The gutenberg bible? It's on a world tour. It's leaving new york tomorrow for venice, Italy. It's in transit right now. Spike strip. Finch, I think kelly's about to do something really violent. You don't know what you're doing. I guess I was in the right place At the right time again. I needed to stop them. Now it's too late. Answer it. Cyril. How did it go? I didn't get it. Excuse me. For a moment, I thought you said You didn't get it. I didn't get the bible, cyril. But I still can. I'll think of something. Do you have any idea what's at stake, How much money we're talking about? My associates in prague don't take kindly To people who welch on their debt. Let me remind you. Mommy, is that you? It's me, kai. It's me, baby. Did I just hear the word "mommy"? Oh, we've made a terrible mistake. I don't know why you had To make it so hard on yourself. Got a feisty one here, finch. You two play nice. I'm just gonna sit over here with my gun. Ms. Lin, you're not going to believe me, But I'm someone who helps people. Like you helped my daughter. I know a lot about you, your olympic career. You don't know anything. I'd like to know more, if you'd permit. You don't seem to commit crimes Of your own volition. But you also don't seem to mind doing it, either. I'm guessing it's been a while, if ever, Since you were desperate or hungry. I hid the pregnancy as long as I could. When I started to show, I knew it was all over. Made my way to europe-- no money, no skills. Gymnastics wouldn't feed my baby. I pawned my silver medal for the medical care To give birth. Then I broke back into the same pawn shop And stole a watch. I stole to feed my newborn. I didn't know it was a front for criminals. And they tracked you down? They wanted me to pay my debt, And I guess they had an opening On their team for a thief. You could've said no. They took kai from me. I didn't have a choice. They promised to send her Just as soon as the work was done. And what about the people you killed? What are you talking about? There's an interpol agent close on your trail. He seems to think that you've left behind Quite a body count. Cyril-- it had to have been. He--he hires those people-- The decoys, vagrants. He must take care of them After I finish a job and leave town. He's a monster. I didn't know anyone had been hurt, I swear. And the bible was the last thing You needed to get for them? It's too late. I had to grab it in transit. It's protected now. Outfit called symmetric security solutions. Cyril and his partners aren't patient men, And I don't know what they'll do to kai. Symmetric security is based in the u.K., But they have a corporate office here. That's where they took it, you're sure? I'm sure. It's downtown. I've seen it, the building's a fortress. Finch, what are you doing? Just a little research, Seeing how accessible symmetric's building is. Have you considered the option That we could go rescue the girl? Kai is halfway around the world, ms. Shaw. How long would that take? A while, but-- And what if she doesn't have a while? I think we have only one option here. We need to get the bible ourselves. Fine I'll cut the thief loose. I already cut myself loose. Okay, symmetric security solutions. We need to know who designed The building and their offices. We'll need someone to help secure Architectural designs, Steal them if we have to, Then develop our operation-- Or just call someone from the nypd With friends in security, Who can get you those kinds of things. Yeah, that's right, I know people. Hey, this is a nice place. Symmetric security's offices occupy the top five floors Of a 70-story tower in the financial district. At precisely 1800 hours, Business operations cease, Whereupon all stair and elevator traffic Is locked out, leaving a lone service elevator In the secured parking garage As the only way to get to the upper floors. From the inside. This is not your average security company. When it comes to thieves, Their motto is "deter or eliminate." The symmetric floor is protected By armed guards and panoramic hemisphere cameras With 360-degree coverage. The bible will be held on the 70th floor, In one of six secure rooms Where they keep high-value items. Sadly, there's no way to know which room They'll hold our item. Whatever the room, it's certain to be guarded By a biometric fingerprint scan Which can detect the prints on all five fingertips And also the user's body heat. Inside the rooms, there are I.R. Motion sensors And an 8-foot-tall cage, Alarmed and electrified, that surrounds the object. The cages themselves have perimeter sensors That can detect movement within 20 feet. Just your average walk in the park. They're the best in the business. Whoever's running this company Is on top of their game. And no doubt love their reputation. I think it's time I met with someone at symmetric. Okay. This is agent bouchard speaking. This is detective lionel fusco with the nypd Down here at the eighth precinct. I was in the village running down a lead On some stolen property for a larceny case. I saw someone who matched the description Of an interpol notice you have up. Chinese woman, late 20s, early 30s. You hunting down a thief or something? I am, detective. What do you need from me? Well, uh, you know, I'm stretched a little thin. But if you wanted, you could go Sit on the apartment. If you get anything juicy, You could slip it back to me here. Uh, yes. Merci. What is the address? I got a report of a stolen car in the area. The description matches this one. That's impossible. This car belongs to The security company I work for. I'm the supervisor. Here, check it out. Based on the prints I'm getting, I can tell this guy doesn't wash his hands very much. That's informative, detective. I'll have a nice set of latent prints in a few. Not bad, lionel. Finch, you find anything else about cyril Or the czechs holding the girl? Speculation, mostly. This syndicate covers their tracks. Based on theft records and news articles, I believe they're part of an extortion scheme That targets culturally significant artifacts And forces kelly to steal them. Then they sell them to the highest bidder Or back to the owner. That's a guaranteed market. The saudi royal family is no doubt interested In a jeweled dagger Belonging to an ancestor. And the administration of the louvre Might pay handsomely under the table To recover an artwork Stolen from them in the first place. Do we think we can trust her? Kelly? To pull off this last job? I hear ya, mr. Reese, But we don't have another alternative. And just because we didn't receive kai's number Doesn't mean we can't protect her too. Our plan is to get the book and save the girl. What happens if the czechs pull out On their end of things? Working on that, mr. Reese. Pardon. I finally found you. I don't know what you're talking about. Who are you? We both know exactly who each other are. You were good, I'll give you that. They laughed at me when I told them Who I was after, at interpol. I've bagged so many thieves in so many countries, But you, I thought I'd chase you forever. You can't prove anything. And yet, here we are. Trust me. Whatever you cook up next, I'll be right behind you With a swat team and a set of shackles. Hook, line, and sinker. This is supervisor farrow. What can I do for you, agent bouchard? I have reason to believe an attempt will be made On an item at your location, a very old book. A bible. You have to believe me. Your credentials have been authenticated, Only reason we're talking. What do you think we should do? Take the threat very, very seriously. We'll initiate default security measure 202, Which automatically moves an object To the central room of our secure floor For safer keeping. Jackpot, finch. You can tell everyone we have an exact location For the bible now. Then it's time to go to work. Everything's in place, mr. Reese. We just need our man on the inside. I'm on it. Let's just say I've worked In high-level security for the past 15 years. Do you know what a kn2 krytron switch tube is? For argument's sake, let's say that I don't. But the United States government requires me to say That transportation of any contraband Or illegal substance-- Drop the fine print, pal. From what I hear, there hasn't been A transport invented that your company Symmetric security cannot handle. Especially when money is no object. A krytron is a cold-cathode gas tube, Commonly used in triggers on nuclear weapons. And if our company never looks inside the transport, We're never made aware of any illegal activity. Why don't I buy us another drink? Okay, let's make it Just a little warmer around there. Your case will be safer here than fort knox, mr. Wiley. Mr. Zappo, it's after hours. And I'm a property resource manager With a high-value client standing beside me. So you'll stand aside. Well, you'll need to sign in. Do you really have nuclear triggers In that briefcase? No. I'm in, finch. Can someone kill those alarms? Reset the alarms. And someone call the nypd To come and collect our friend. Ms. Shaw, I believe that's your cue. You have 45 seconds until the alarms reset. Garage, there's a 5-0 at the gate, Here for the prisoner. He said he was in the area. This the guy? He's all yours. They fell for it. Where to next? Take me to jfk, private charter terminal. I should start charging fares. Oh, don't forget to give each finger A good lick before you scan them. Excuse me? Saliva will simulate sweat And fake out the body heat feature. Ms. Shaw, I created a three-minute Surveillance loop on the camera feed. The rest is up to you. Your guy is sure his computer trick Killed the motion sensors? Yeah. Something about turning up ambient air temperature To match our skin temperatures. Let's hope he's right. Well, he's always right. Damn, it's hot in here. Agent bouchard, I see you took me up on the offer. Thank you for letting me check in. Would it be possible for me To actually see the bible? No need. We already had someone Make a run at the book tonight. Did you arrest her? It was a guy. A big guy. The thief interpol is after is a woman, I'm sure of it-- A woman who uses male decoys. Look, frenchie, we handled it. I promise. Everything's under control. My hands are sweating. Well, make them stop. Farrow, have you been up on the 70th Since we nailed that guy? What? No, I've been here with you the entire time since. Well, the computer's saying your fingerprints were used Three minutes ago to open a secure room up there. All security teams, converge on the 70th floor. This is not a drill! Let's go! We're too late. I liaised with the nypd. They're using every able resource to track. Yes, sir, oui. I'll be on a plane tonight. Hang up the phone and get in the car. We didn't steal the bible, agent bouchard, We merely borrowed it A bit. Services rendered. No more jobs. Did you hear me, cyril? I'm out. My debt is paid To you and your prague friends. I want my daughter. I'm done with this life. And I'm done with you. You've brought us millions Over the years, jiao, tens of millions. Why end such a good thing? You see, you stop working for us When I say you do. And if you ever try to run on me, I'll get my money's worth, Out of you or out of your daughter. Don't you touch her. Kai? She's in a luxury spa Compared to where I could send her. Do you want to know? Do what you must, but I thought You should hear the truth. This is agent bouchard, Interpol special crimes directorate. I need to speak with my nypd liaison. How about a little reminder? Can you just let her be, cyril? You have to realize, you're property And your daughter's property. And you will be, as long as-- What the hell is going on? Slight change of plans, cyril. Kai, I'm a friend of your mother's. I'm here to take you home. You're safe now. Who was that? In the video? A friend. I wanted to kill you a long time ago. But they said you were too useful. Not anymore! Nypd! Down on the ground! Hands up! Hey, officer, I got this one. I used to hate those colors. It usually meant I needed to run. Well, kelly can't run anymore. What do you think happens next? Mr. Reese will be bringing kai Back safely to the u.S. And a very wealthy alias of mine is sponsoring Her citizenship to help speed things along. And kelly? Kelly broke the law, repeatedly. And to end this situation, we had to Bring in agent bouchard. So for better or worse, Her fate is in his hands now. You got five minutes. Unfortunately, since you are a legal u.S. Citizen, I can't do what I really want And extradite you back to europe. And there is so much I have you on. and antiquities theft, And illicit trafficking in 20 countries. I could put you away for a lifetime On half the continents in the world, Regardless of the duress You were under at the time. I'm a hero with interpol now. I recovered the bible and took down a cell Of czech extortionists in prague. Don't know how I did that, but I'll take credit. I couldn't do anything wrong now if I tried. I always thought it was a shame. My life of crime? No. Your life before that. I always thought you deserved the gold. Please, thank your friends for helping To get kai to safety. You're both safe Now that cyril and his thugs ended up in jail Or the emergency room. I wonder if I'll make it in the real world. The only thing I was good at was gymnastics And stealing. Mm. The only thing I was good at was killing people, But I'm workin' on it. How about you just try being a mom? Oh, my-- Kai! Mommy! Oh, my god, my baby. I missed you so much. How are you? Are you okay? We're gonna go home. Yes, we are. How about fort knox? Think we could take fort knox? You thinking about doing this professionally, lionel? I mean, you never know. I don't know, detective. Gold is difficult to move efficiently And not worth its weight in untrustworthy markets. Now diamonds-- All I'm saying is, we all make a pretty good team. There's one teammate missing. How about the crown jewels?
You are being watched. The government has a secret system-- A machine that spies on you every hour of every day. I designed the machine to detect acts of terror, But it sees everything Violent crimes involving ordinary people. The government considers these people irrelevant. We don't. Hunted by the authorities, we work in secret. You will never find us. But victim or perpetrator, If your number's up, we'll find you.  911. What is your emergency? I need you to calm down.  911. What's your emergency? Shut up! Shut up!  911. What's your emergency?  911.  911. What's your emergency?  911. What's your emergency?  You gotta help me. They've broken into my car. Are you in the car now, sir?  No. Thank god. I'm across the street. Good. Please do not attempt to approach the vehicle. Now do you see any weapons?  They're ripping up the interior. They're everywhere! All right, and are they attempting to steal the vehicle?  What? Don't be ridiculous.  Squirrels can't drive. I'm afraid squirrels fall outside the purview of 911. Let me connect you to a non-emergency operator.  Good job, harold. You sure you've never done this kind of thing before? Not quite, Although I do have some applicable experience.  I don't know, finch. Maybe we should get fusco to question those squirrels. Reese is right.  Could be a whole rodent carjacking ring. Keeping entertained, are we?  I'd be happy to trade places, ms. Shaw. I admit I'm not sure what makes me the best fit For this particular undercover mission. At a desk, surrounded by monitors, Helping people in danger. All you're missing is the dog.  Besides, would you really want someone To call 911 and get me? Point taken.  These calls represent the numbers we never get. Crimes that unfold too quickly for the machine to detect. So it's a win-win, finch. You get to help them while looking into our latest number. Sandra nicholson.  911 operator and trainee supervisor. She's got a stack of commendations. So what's the threat? are often witnesses At trial, targets of lawsuits,  And Now that I've hacked the routing system, I can monitor every call she gets. Sandra? Her car went off a bridge into the water. She's sinking. I don't know what to do. Okay, hello, ma'am, can you hear me? What's your name?  Jackie. I'm trapped. Oh, my god. All right, jackie, just relax. We're gonna get you outta there. Okay? Cars can float for up to two minutes, So we got a little time.  The doors are stuck, and the windows have shorted out.  Please help. Jackie, are you wearing heels?  Yes, these stupid All right, those pumps are gonna save your life. Your car window's weak spot is up front near the door hinges. I want you to kick that spot as hard as you can With your heel, okay? Go! It worked!  Unit 1234 arriving on scene.  We have eyes on the car. We'll take it from here. All right, jackie. Rescue team's on the way. She's good. At handling other people's emergencies.  Wonder how she'll hold up when she's faced  With one of her own. Murder weapon on the kipling case. What do you think, fusco? Right size, right shape? Wrong edge. Wound was serrated, remember?  Hey, fusco, hold up a second. Suspect's guilty as hell, But we can't get his dna without a warrant. The d.A. Wants to kick him. Ever hear of dumpster diving, kane? Excuse me. Detective fusco? Jake harrison. Just transferred over from the 12th,  And I caught this case. Tara cooke, 29. Found by the east river yesterday morning. Head bashed in, wallet stolen. Mugging gone bad, right? Everyone said you were the guy to talk to. Look, kid, they bumped you up to homicide task force For a reason. They don't all come with instructions. Figure it out. You want something from me too? Is this a bad time, detective? It ain't good. My brain's being picked on everything from interrogation To evidence collection. Hardly surprising. Your arrest of officer simmons Brought you no small amount of esteem. Perhaps you should be flattered  That your peers are soliciting your advice. Yeah, yeah. Speaking of which, did you receive the name I sent? Yeah, it was, uh Sandra nicholson. Yeah, I mean, other than a couple of parking tickets, She's clean. But she did have a sealed juvie record.  Must have gotten into some kind of trouble as a kid. I don't suppose you could take a peek  Behind that seal. I'm sorry, pal. With the whole hr takedown, hit the force pretty hard. The whole department's under scrutiny. So unless you got a court order, I guess I'm gonna have to say no. Understood. I thank you for your time, detective. And as for your newfound popularity,  You've earned it. Yeah. See these bruises? Livor mortis. Happens when a body stays in one place, okay? Tara was found on her right side. These bruises are on the left. And look. Forensics found industrial carpet fibers Stuck in the wound. But she wasn't wrapped up in any carpet. Body was moved. This isn't a mugging at all. Let's get to work. Show me what else you got. Uh, yeah.  My name is aaron.  Some men are trying to break into my apartment. Hi, aaron. I'm sandra. I'm gonna help you out, okay? Are you alone? The sitter wasn't here when I got home from school, And mom's at work. All right, I'm sending the police right away. All units, 1031 in progress. Code three. Repeat, code three. Mr. Reese, ms. Shaw, he may not be our number, but We got it, finch. We're on our way. Sandra, they're breaking through the door. Is there any place you can hide? There's a crawlspace behind a panel in my closet. Perfect. Go there now.  Okay, sandra, I'm in. Okay, you're doing great, aaron.  Now I want you to stay super quiet, not a sound. Sandra?  It worked. They're leaving. No! Aaron? No, no, no! No! Aaron, are you all right? Aaron! No!  Sandra? The men want me to tell you something. What--what is it? Answer your phone. What? Hello?  So nice to meet you, sandra.  I apologize for calling you on your personal cell phone,  But for what we're about to do together,  I need you mobile. And what are we about to do?  Anything I say.  You see, I've just taken this boy hostage,  And unless you follow my instructions precisely,  Little aaron is going to die. Who is this? What's your name?  Really, sandra?  A boy's life is at stake,  And you want proper introductions. How do I know aaron is even real That this kidnapping wasn't staged?  I'd be happy to cut off aaron's hand  And dump it outside your apartment  At 3621 17th avenue.  Take a look at your phone.  Now tell me exactly which body part  You'd like him to lose first. No! I believe you. Good.  Now for the ground rules.  Alert anyone to the situation, disobey any of my commands,  Attempt in any way to disconnect this call,  And aaron dies. Sounds simple enough.  I'm glad you think so.  Command number one:  Call off the police you've dispatched to aaron's home.  Now. All units, disregard 1031 at 216 bakersfield way. The call was a hoax. Repeat, there is no emergency.  Copy that. Sector charlie canceling response.  Excellent, sandra.  You're gonna do just fine.  Finch, we're entering aaron's apartment building.  Any news? Aaron's been abducted by a man Who was able to hack into the 911 private branch exchange  And ensure that the boy's call went directly to sandra. Any idea why he'd single her out? Could be a grudge. One of sandra's 911 calls gone bad. Doesn't explain the kid, though. Why would sandra's number come up If aaron's the one in danger? If the machine gave us sandra's number, Her fate and aaron's are entwined. Finch, no sign of them or the kid. Try the webcam.  I used a remote administration tool  To access aaron's computer.  There he is.  Guys who took him were pros.  They're not military. No sweep and clear.  Flashy chrome pistol.  And that ring-- a gothic cross. Templarios.  Express kidnappers from a mexican cartel. Best at what they do. I've pinpointed the gps signal  From the mystery caller's phone.  It's in a car cruising upper manhattan. I'm on it. I'll see if I can track down the cartel.  Looks like your dead girl,  Tara cooke, worked at a private equity firm.  Let's go check out her office. We'll run the usual tests. But first glance? Carpet fibers aren't a match. Your girl wasn't killed in her office. Hey. Didn't glasses give you the message? My dance card's booked.  I'm helping a rookie with a homicide.  So unless the world's coming to an end-- For a ten-year-old boy it is, unless we save him. Why didn't you say so? What do you need? The templarios. Any idea where they've been hanging out lately? I can't say for sure. They used to frequent a bar up in bedford park Called el cetrero. That's where I'd try. Good luck. And you are? Brent holm. I worked side by side with tara for two years. I heard she was mugged. Why are you checking her office? Just have to rule some things out. We'll provide the police with whatever you need. Did you know tara as well? I should hope so. I hired her. Gina kincaid, cfo. And this is my husband and ceo ron kincaid. Good to meet you both. Tara was one of our top young executives. We intend to help in any way we can. You know what would be really helpful? If you could get us a copy of the security footage Of tara's last day at work. It's done. I've labeled aaron's call a prank.  Good.  Now plug your headset into your phone.  Your hands need to be free. To do what?  Shut down the building's backup generator. If the power goes out, That generator is the only thing keeping this call center online. Why shut it down?  Because I asked nicely.  I can be more emphatic,  But people tend to get hurt when that happens.  Good girl.  And try not to look so nervous, sandra.  If I can see your hands shaking, everyone can.  Is that in washington heights?  How old would you say he was?  Go get them as fast as you can.  Now how long ago did you take the pills?  Do you have a fire extinguisher in the house?  What was the man wearing?  All right, sir.  What's your location? What's the apartment number?  Well, then you need to get  Out of there as quickly as possible. And how long has your cat been stuck in the a.C. Duct?  Do not attempt to save any of your possessions, okay?  And have you had any alcohol?  What about the other passengers? Anyone hurt when the car hit you?  Did you see which way he ran-- Sandra I just wanted to thank you again for your help. Are you all right? Fine. Thanks.  Why would he send her to shut down the backup generator? Can I help you, sandra? I'm such a klutz. I think I dropped an earring back there this morning. Is there any way I could go in and take a look? Just sign in.  Oh, sandra, did you really think I wouldn't see that?  You must not care about aaron at all. Just like you didn't care about little joseph 20 years ago. Joseph.  With the right resources,  You can access anything  Even sealed juvenile records.  The question is,  Are you doomed to make the same mistake twice?  Creepy down here, isn't it?  All right.  Now find the backup generator switch,  And shut it off.  Nicely done, sandra.  Just one more task to perform.  Let's go to the server room.  Now have a seat and sign in.  Now  Pull up all the 911 calls  That came in two days ago.  30,918 emergencies.  New york, new york. It's a wonderful town.  Okay, one more step, and aaron is home free. Tell me, so we can get this over with.  I want you to delete them, sandra--all of them. I can't. Those calls are part of the public record.  They're evidence, confessions, dying words. I won't.  I've told you what I require.  Now you have to choose.  Save 30,000 phone calls or the life of one boy. Ms. Shaw, I do hope you're closing in On our mystery caller  Because he's proving to be quite elusive. There's no evidence that he's broken into the camera feeds, Yet he's somehow able to watch sandra's every move.  Thanks to the gps coordinates you sent me, I've got eyes on his car. And in a minute I'll have eyes on him.  Ms. Shaw, did you find the caller? Finch We have a problem.  This guy's not just a voice, he's a ghost. Finch, you wanna tell me what I'm holding here?  From the description, it sounds like a phone relay. The caller's voice is carried from one phone, Through the other, and on to sandra.  His call could be originating from anywhere in the city  Or the world. Should I untape them?  Maybe then you can trace the call. No, ms. Shaw, please. If we untether the phones, the call will disconnect, And aaron may well be killed. Were you able to glean anything from the driver? Some guy paid him 1,000 bucks to drive around all day With the phones in the back, never got a name. If only I could determine How he's able to keep such a close eye on sandra.  How many men were there? Did they both have guns?  Ma'am, are you someplace safe? Did the dog try to bite you?  I understand. Is the door locked?  And I'm not saying-- Of course. Ms. Shaw, I have a pressing matter to attend to.  Can you get a description of the man who paid the driver? My pleasure.  Think of it as an exchange, sandra.  You delete a day's worth of calls,  And I send aaron home, happy and intact. What good could deleting them possibly do anyone?  It's the simpler solution. Then why not just do it yourself if you have all these resources?  You know as well as I do  That the terminal you're sitting at  Is the only way to access them,  Which means I need someone on the inside--you.  Now enough talk. What's it gonna be, sandra,  The calls or the kid?  Don't turn around. I have remotely activated the mute function On your cell phone, so he can't hear us. Whoever's doing this to you has mounted a tiny webcam  On your headset. That's how he's been able to watch you No matter where you go. Harold. How do you know about this? No time to explain. You have to trust me. I have a team working to save aaron, But we need to determine who's behind all of this And what he wants. If deleting 30,000 calls is the simpler solution, Then that's likely just a smokescreen  To hide the one call  That our friend is truly concerned about. If we could locate that call, We might be able to turn the tables on him.  I'm losing patience, sandra. I can't just hit delete once. I have to do it in batches.  It could take 15 minutes for an entire day, And to do that, I need an elite admin code. Only the head of I.T. Has it on a key fob that--  Then stop wasting time, and go get that code! While you do that, I'll stay here and find that call.  And remember, keep me out of your line of sight. So I checked the security footage From tara cooke's last day at work. Arrives in the morning and leaves at night. Nothing unusual. Best I came up with was this-- A map of places tara spent most of her time. Forensics got carpet fibers from all these spots. No matches. What about that coworker of hers--mr. Concerned? I'll check him out. Hey, wonder boy tells me you guys are trying to help a kid. Indeed, detective, which is why I need your help. I'm looking for a needle in a haystack--  One suspicious 911 call out of 30,000. That's not a haystack. That's a whole damn farm. Using probabilities, I was able to reduce that number. For instance, 38% of all calls to the 911 system Are the result of unintended pressure to the keypad. Wait a minute. You're telling that 911 gets over 11,000 butt dials a day?  I'm afraid so, but it did allow me To weed out almost half of the calls. I also removed purse-snatchings, stalled cars-- Let's cut to the chase. How many calls we gonna look at? I'm sending you your half of the list. The attachment contains audio files, Along with each phone's number, call history,  And the map of its location data. Happy hunting, detective. No, it's gotta be version 10.6, okay? No, I told you. If the protocols don't match, the router won't work. WellTry again. Hey, todd, you got a minute? One of my trainees yanked too hard on a monitor cable, Tore the connector right off.  You have a spare? When will they learn to respect the tech? Keep an eye on that one.  Now get that key fob.  Better hurry,  Or you're gonna get caught. Here you go. Thanks. Hey. You okay, sandra? Rough call.  Time is running out, detective.  Let me know if you find that 911 call.  He's stealing from me every day!  It's my newspaper!  Breaking everything in the house.  This is how it gets whenever the knicks lose,  And I've had it.  911. What's your emergency?  It's my fault. I was wrong.  I shouldn't have slept with him.  Now he hurt me.  Honey, where are you?  I see your phone moving west on highway 25.  We--we were driving.  I said I was leaving him. He--he hurt me.  Okay, I've got police coming to find you.  Just stay with me.  You're on a prepaid cell, so I can't see your name.  Wanna tell me your name?  Hello? Are you there? Answer me.  Please answer me. Wait a minute. This caller's phone has been in the same locations As the rookie's homicide victim. Tara.  Hey, glasses, I think I found the call. And if I'm right, we're working the same case. Homicide victim. She called from a burner phone. Battery went dead before police could locate her. But I'm pretty sure I know her name. I'm sending you the info now. Tara cooke. - Yeah. I'm betting whoever's threatening that kid Is the same person who killed tara.  Now is there any way you can access tara's voice mail? I'll try, detective.  Who is that?  Who is helping you? Nobody. I swear I don't know that person.  I'm not a fan of lies, sandra.  You broke one of my rules. Please don't hurt aaron.  You should've thought of aaron  Before you involved someone else in our arrangement.  Now I have no choice.  I'm a man of my word.  Just remember, this was your fault.  911. What is your emergency?  Would you like me to send an ambulance to your location? An explosion. Are you sure? Where was the bomb when it went off, sir?  Are you all right? Is anyone injured? I understand, sir. How many windows were shattered from the explosion?  And as far as you can tell, was anyone injured? Is he dead? Did you kill aaron?  The bomb I exploded was in a parking garage.  Three cars were turned into flaming metal husks.  Call it a warning shot.  Aaron is still alive For the moment. Okay, I understand.  No, I don't think you do.  You see, a bomb of the exact same size  Is currently strapped to little aaron.  And since my rules have proven too complicated  For you to follow,  I'm gonna make this all very simple.  You have exactly 15 minutes to delete those calls  Before I set that bomb off, starting now.  Do it!  Or the next dispatch call you make  Will be to have officers pick up the pieces  Of what's left of that boy's body.  Do you understand me now, sandra? At first, it didn't make sense.  Of all the operators out there on that floor,  Why pick the one who is least likely to crack under pressure  And give in to his demands? A foolish move Unless he knew something about you  Something in a sealed juvenile record That he could twist into the perfect leverage To get you to do what he was asking. The loss of a child. His name was joseph. He was three years old, And he had a smile that just made everything okay.  I lived across the street,  Used to babysit him all the time. And one night, when I was 14, I was giving him a bath. He wanted a toy. Ridiculous yellow frog.  It was just downstairs.  I was only gone a minute, but You can probably guess the rest. The worst part wasn't  Desperately trying to perform cpr Before the paramedics arrived Or even when the police Charged me with negligent homicide. No, the worst part Was when I came back upstairs And I found him lying facedown in the tub. I froze. I couldn't think. I couldn't move. And to this day, I wonder whether those extra 15 seconds Wouldn't have saved joseph's life. You were just a child yourself. Anyone in those circumstances-- That's what my lawyer said. And in the eyes of the law, I was found innocent. But not in my eyes, harold. Which is why I'm gonna do whatever this man wants. Sandra, wait. There's a second reason why the caller is targeting you-- A 911 call you took two days ago, a murder. I don't care. I'm not giving up on another little boy. I'll give you as many minutes as I can, And then I'm deleting those calls. I'm turning around now. Please get out of my way. I understand you won't give up on aaron. I won't give up on you. Ms. Shaw, if you still have those tethered phones, Hold on to them. I have work to do. Got a description. Might be the guy we're looking for.  All right, shaw, let's hear it. Latino in a slick suit.  Ridiculous number of piercings in his right ear,  Including a gothic cross. Templario. Why am I not surprised?  There he is. Five does seem a bit ridiculous. I'm on way. No need to handle this on your own. Never been one to wait for backup. Just want a quick conversation with him. The rest of you canLeave. Nobody gets hurt. Nobody gets hurt? How about you, pendejo? I was kinda hoping you'd pick the hard way.  Hey, glasses, got some interesting information  About my homicide victim and her bosses, the kincaids.  Might help you with your kid.  Call you when I'm done. I just got one other question. Any idea what tara has in her hand? That's her cell phone. Uh-uh. That's her cell phone. Found in her apartment. That is a burner phone.  Tara had it on her the night she died, But can't seem to find it in any of her things. Turns out somebody got rid of it Somebody who killed her.  We accessed the phone records. Tara used that burner phone to only call two numbers-- and This one. Recognize it? Me neither. That's why we decided to check its voice mail. I know, how do you do that without the code, right? I got this friend of mine who's just-- He's great at that type of thing.  Ron, it's tara.  I-I can't do this anymore, the sneaking around.  It's not fair to me or to gina.  I wanna tell the world about us. Even deleted voice mails can be retrieved for up to 30 days. Ones and zeros, they never really go away. None of this is admissible in court. But this is. Carpet fibers from the mat in your trunk, Which is where ron stuffed the body after he hid her Before he dumped her down by the river. But the real scare came when you realized She made a 911 call. You didn't know what was on that call,  But you knew you needed to get rid of it. See, normally, I'd let you squirm and deny it. But you had to kidnap a little boy to cover it up. Little boy. What? Now you're gonna get on that phone, And you're gonna tell 'em to let him go. Wait. He was just supposed to get rid of the call. He never said anything about-- who?  Who'd you hire? I don't know. Ron told me what he'd done.  I found someone who could get rid of the problem. How do you call it off? I never asked. Don't worry, shaw. I saved the best for last. Are you him The guy who's been terrorizing a 911 operator And threatening to blow up a kid?  Ni madres, mija. You'll never catch him. Guy's careful. Untraceable calls, self-deleting texts. We do what he asks, the money shows up in an account.  Yeah, I'm gonna make this simple. You're gonna tell us where you're holding the boy. No way.  Soy una tumba. You're going to have to shoot me. That Won't be necessary.  On their way, sir.  I just need you to stay on the phone with me. Mr. Reese, ms. Shaw, I have news. I was able to hack into the one cell phone tower Relaying signals from both the tethered phones ms. Shaw found. I know where our mystery man is calling from. Chances are it's the same place they're holding aaron--  An office tower in midtown. Already there, finch. The templario gave up aaron's location? We managed to pry it out of him.  Please be careful.  The man we're looking for is highly intelligent, Resourceful, and no doubt dangerous when cornered. So basically, finch, he's you If you were evil. I hardly welcome the comparison, ms. Shaw.  Please hurry.  This man kidnapped a child to help a killer,  And he'll succeed if sandra deletes those calls.  What, you need a new suit?  Stop.  I've just been informed  That the clients who hired me for this job  Have confessed to the police.  As such, my contract with them is now null and void.  Your services in this matter are no longer required, sandra. So it's over. You're letting aaron go.  Regretfully, that has now become impossible.  I simply cannot risk any details of this operation  Falling into police hands.  Cleanliness is all.  Don't blame yourself. You did everything you could. Don't do this, I'm begging you.  I'm sorry, sandra. It's too late for aaron.  And for you as well.  Though of course eliminating you  Was always part of the plan.  It was a genuine pleasure speaking with you, sandra.  Good-bye. Sandra. Don't. It's protocol. During a blackout, We're all supposed to exit through the front. Which is exactly what the man who called you Will be waiting for. Is there another way out? Follow me.  Vamonos. Let's go. What the hell? I thought the elevator was locked. We gotta defuse that bomb. Hey. There is no "dead" in "team." So instead of going all charles bronson on me, Let me clear that way. You're aaron, right? I'm here to help. There's an exit down there. Sandra! A level switch. Hold very still. Hey, aaron. You like baseball, right? Yeah, but I'm not a very good hitter. I used to have the same problem. Know what helped? Every night, I'd close my eyes Imagine myself hitting one out of the park.  I realized it was all about timing. Wanna give it a try? Go ahead.  See that pitch coming, aaron? Yeah. Swing as hard as you can. Now. I did it. Yeah, you did. Got the last kidnapper. You figure out which one was behind all this? Yeah. None of them. Then he's still out there.  Don't move. Before you make a grave error of judgment, Permit me to describe what I have in my hand. It's a severed electrical cable connected to this generator. Current is running through it At ten times the amperage required for electrocution.  All I have to do is drop it in that water,  And within three seconds, The muscles in your heart will fibrillate. Now I'm not a violent man. But not only have you tried to harm this young woman  And an innocent child,  You have shut down a 911 call center  In one of the more dangerous cities in the country. So now there are two things that will keep me From ending your life right now. First, I want you to drop the gun. Second, I need to hear the sound of your voice. Please. I just work for the guy. I don't even know his name.  Sandra, get his weapon.  Hey. Just wanted to say thanks again for all your help. The kincaids have lawyered up. But the carpet fibers in ron's trunk Are a match for the ones found on tara's body. So between that and the phone records, Shouldn't be too hard to get a conviction. Congratulations. Yeah, you too. I'd say we make a pretty good team. Don't you think? We ain't a team. What, are you gonna stand there all day? Get yourself a cup of coffee and get back to work. I can't help you solve all your cases. Sandra. Harold. So glad you could meet. I was on my way to work. It's the least I could do. I owe you my life. I was happy to lend a hand. To tell you the truth, I've come to think of us as kindred spirits, Taking emergency calls to help those who need us. So is that how you found me? You got a call? Something like that. What I mean to say is It does my heart good to know that you're out there. Likewise, harold. I should get to work. Before you leave, there was Something I'd like to show you. Nice hit, aaron. Is that him? I wanted to offer you the one thing That 911 operators never get--closure. Aaron looks happy. You'd never guess what he'd been through. Kids are resilient creatures. As are adults, if they have the right friends. My deepest thanks to both of you for a job well done. Well, not quite done. If you still wanna find the guy, Maybe these could help. Hello?  Finally.  A chance to speak to the man who handed me my first defeat. I didn't do it alone.  Oh, believe me, I'm quite aware. I'm warning you now, Any attempt to harm either sandra or aaron again Would be a mistake.  No need to worry.  Sandra's earned her life, as far as I'm concerned.  And at this point,  Harming aaron would be counterproductive.  You, however, are another story entirely.  Be seeing you. What did he say? Nothing of any consequence.
You are being watched. The government has a secret system-- A machine that spies on you every hour of every day. I know because I built it. I designed the machine to detect acts of terror, But it sees everything Violent crimes involving ordinary people. Crimes the government considered irrelevant. They wouldn't act, so I decided I would. But I needed a partner. Help! Somebody help me!  Please! I'm locked onto ms. Mcnabb's position. She's two blocks from you being pursued north On avenue "d." Ah! Are you there? Now she's moving west on fifth street Heading toward-- oh, dear. Ah! Where are you? There's no more time! You have to do something! No. Please! Relax, finch. I'm here. Haley's safe. Who are you? Protector of the innocent. Heard you could use some protecting. Your embezzling boss didn't like the idea Of you testifying against him in court, So sent this joker to make sure it didn't happen. Mr. Dillinger. Didn't he send two hit men after ms. Mcnabb? Last one, I promise. I hope the threats required an ambulance. And not a coroner. I can't believe that you saved my life. Don't mention it. You've had a very traumatic experience. You probably shouldn't be on your own right now. I don't know about you, haley, but I could use a drink. It's Saturday, finch. The numbers never stop coming, mr. Dillinger.  I believe I told you that up front. Guy could use a little r&r once in a while. You ever think about getting someone else in the rotation? You are the rotation. And it's time to get to work.  Oh, and mr. Dillinger. The next time an attractive woman wants To thank you for saving her life, A simple "you're welcome" should suffice. Who was that? My boss. Needs me to put in some overtime. Thanks for getting me out of trouble. Thanks for getting into trouble. It's not good for you to be In here all day by yourself, harold. You ever think about getting a dog? Oh, thank you, but I'm afraid I don't drink coffee. No, it's tea--black chai. That is your poison, right? It's sencha green, actually. Well, close enough. Seeing as how the only thing I know about you is your name-- Which isn't really your name. All you need to know about me, mr. Dillinger, Is that I pay you to stop bad things Before they happen. Now, are we ready to get started? Long as the checks clear. Daniel casey. Born and raised in tucson, arizona.  He got into cal poly's computer science program,  But dropped out a year before graduating. Must you do that? Oh, you like this? I call her "greta." Blackwater souvenir. If only she'd cook me dinner. Casey's somewhat of a loner. No family to speak of. He freelances with various tiger teams around the country. Is that as exciting as it sounds? Companies use tiger teams To test their security systems for weaknesses, Which they can find by hacking in themselves. So the answer's no. Casey's infiltrated numerous companies Over the years. Perhaps he saw something that he wasn't supposed to see. Or stole something he wasn't supposed to. Two months ago, Casey canceled his phone and cable subscriptions, And he hasn't made a single bank transaction since. Well, I hate to say it, finch, but this guy could be dead. I appreciate your optimism, mr. Dillinger, But I'm certain that he's alive Because I've received his number. Ah, yes, the numbers. You know, one day, you're gonna have to tell me How you get your divine intel. So how do we find casey? If mr. Casey's in some kind of trouble, He may attempt to contact old friends.  This is lester strickland. Casey worked for him upon occasion.  According to his connectroid profile, Strickland spends saturdays at a bar watching horse races. That might be a place to start. Do I look like the equestrian type? I'm sure you'll figure something out. Hey, pal, give me your best lager. Word is "I am spartacus" Is favored to win ten to one. He better, I just dropped two gs on him. Wow, you're a braver man than I. To "I am spartacus." I shouldn't even be here right now. My boss is breaking my balls, making me work weekends. You ought to get into business for yourself, my friend. Answer to no one. What's your trade? I, uh, I audit security systems. Yeah? You know, I got a buddy of mine in that industry. Maybe you two have crossed paths. His name's daniel casey. Mr. Dillinger, what are you doing? Casey, huh? Yeah. Yeah, we went to cal poly together way back when. So, you know him? I'm afraid not. But if I do run into him, I'll tell him you said hello. What'd you say your name was? I didn't. Admit it, finch. You were surprised when I brought up cal poly.  Didn't think I was listening, did you? I was more surprised by how direct you were Regarding mr. Casey.  Is it necessary to be so intimidating? We don't get to casey until strickland calls him. He's not gonna do that unless he's spooked. And if he calls mr. Casey, no doubt he'll tell him To steer clear of you. You don't like the way I do things, You're more than welcome to come get dirty in the trenches.  How 'bout that? And there we go. Hello? Daniel, what the hell did you get yourself into? They came to see you, didn't they? Yeah, some neanderthal claiming to be an old pal of yours.  And he wasn't the only one. About an hour ago, some couple-- a man and a woman--  Stopped me outside my coffee joint,  Asking if I'd seen you. Never been so popular in my life.  I'll stay scarce until the meeting. All right, well, I'll have that package ready for you By tomorrow in case you need it.  Thanks, lester.  You're the only friend I have right now. Keep your head down, kid. What do you think that package was? Mr. Strickland's area of expertise is false documents.  It may be that he's creating a fake identity for mr. Casey. Casey's trying to hide from someone.  Sounds like that couple strickland mentioned  Might be after him. And they have a head start. Yeah, but they don't have the finch-inator on their side Working his hacker mojo. The number that strickland dialed is a prepaid cell phone. If I can access the carrier that it belongs to, I may be able to elicit gps coordinates. Where the hell'd you learn to do all that stuff anyway? As I've said before, mr. Dillinger, I'm a very private person. Yeah. Mr. Casey's signal still hasn't moved. It may be time to start looking for him Inside the hotel. Short of getting me a job as a bellhop, I don't know how I'll find him. And how can you be sure that the other party Hasn't already found him inside? 'cause I think I just made them outside.  Strickland said a man and a woman, right? There are 8 million people in this city. The thing about operators, we can smell our own. Plus they haven't moved since I got here. Yeah, trust me, finch. I just found our threat. I'm sending you a photo of the couple, finch.  Can't you do some sort of facial matching thing online? It's not quite that simple, mr. Dillinger.  Though it may not matter. That man is cia. Mind telling me how you know that? It's a long story. But whatever trouble mr. Casey's gotten into, It involves the United States government. And what I can tell you about that man is He's highly efficient.  Are you sure they haven't made you as well? Please, finch. You hired me for a reason. Give me a little more credit than that. Maybe, if we finish early, Mark will let us stay in town an extra day or two. Never pictured you As a rockefeller ice-skating type, kara. I was thinking more like Take over the drug trade for christmas, Burn it down by new year's. That sounds like a hell of a party. You got plans? Going back to stalking the ex-girlfriend again? Thinking more like aruba. Something about killing a citizen Makes me wanna kick back on a beach. I'm not ready to see you in a speedo. And don't consider daniel casey a citizen. He waived that right when he stole state secrets. They still want us to take his teeth? Proof of death. Couple molars should do it. Dna swab's a lot easier to get through airport security Than a whole bag full of teeth. I don't make the rules. It looks like we've got another problem across the street. That tall drink of water? I got a christmas list of ways to dispose of him. He's not one of ours. Looks local, not foreign government. My guess? Private military. Merc. Maybe casey hired some muscle. Think we should take him out first? Let's keep him in play. See what he does. If he's a problem, we'll put him in the ground Along with casey. I got eyes on casey, finch, But your friends from the government have a jump on him. You need to get to casey before they do, mr. Dillinger. Yeah, I'm aware of the stakes, thank you.  They're not gonna ghost him on a public street. Way too many people. Scratch that. This guy might be crazier than I thought. Finch, I think it's happening now. False alarm.  Guy was just planting a bug on him. Casey just ducked into a cafe. Could be the meeting he was talking about. Lost sight of ozzie and harriet. Since they have ears on mr. Casey,  Could be listening from a more advantageous position. Yeah, well, I'm in a pretty primo spot myself. And we now have ears of our own. Daniel casey? Red cap, right? Ian banks, ssci. We spoke on the phone. May I sit? Ssci, finch? Senate select committee on intelligence. Ian banks may be a congressional staffer. If you wanted to report a crime That pertained to national security, Ssci would be one way to go. Our conversation was vague at best So right now I'd like to know a little bit more About what you saw. What I saw? I'm new at this, so help me out, okay? How are you gonna protect me? Witness protection? Get me out of the country? What's the-- what's the protocol? We have measures in place to ensure your safety. But they'll take time. Making someone disappear Isn't as easy as snapping your fingers. It is for me. I'm not exactly the guy everyone's gonna wonder about At their high school reunion. And probably why this group picked me in the first place. If we're to proceed, You'll need to tell me more about that group. Look at it from my position. We get calls all the time from folks reporting crimes Committed by our government. Do you have any proof of illegal activity? Anything in your possession at all? I need assurances. Okay? Whatever comes out on this, my name isn't anywhere near it. Guarantee that and my safety or I walk. Anonymity and safety, guaranteed. But for that to mean anything, mr. Casey You have to trust me. You're right. When was the ssci created? What? The year. Tell me that and we leave together. Finch, have you got a photo of banks? Sending you one now. If this is ian banks, then who the hell is casey talking to? Time's up. Mr. Casey, this isn't-- Forget it, okay? None of this feels right, you don't feel right. You follow me, I'll make sure you regret it. I'll say this for casey, he's got good instincts.  He's making a beeline for the back exit. Which quite possibly leads into the arms of the cia.  You need to acquire him now. Hey, wait! Casey! Thank you. I thought for a second you were gonna make me chase you. Attracting a lot of attention, shouting like that.  Who are you? I'm security detail. This man's my client. You mind telling me what this is all about? Excuse me, I-- shut up and let me save your life. You should really put your weapon on the ground. Why the hell would I do that? For starters, you just lost possession of your client. You mercs are all the same. You never think things through. Mr. Dillinger, are you all right? Peachy. Got a couple of party crashers Led by the man formerly known as ian banks. One chump left. Well, that got interesting. Where's casey? "powers that be" aren't gonna be happy. Powers that be sold casey as a traitor. So why was he meeting With someone he thought was government? Don't know. That guy wasn't government, though. Can't hurt to ask him a few questions. Can't hurt us, anyway. I've got casey, finch. Now you wanna tell me how you knew those two were cia? All that matters now is figuring out why  Mr. Casey is in trouble and how we can help him. Who are you talking to? None of your business. Why don't you start by telling me What you did that pissed so many people off? Really? After all that? You'd be a chalk outline without me. I'm sorry, it's just I don't know who you are. Yeah? Well, I know all about you, danny. College dropout. No family, at least none that can help you.  You're alone with nowhere to run. Mr. Dillinger, that's enough. The friends you got ain't keeping you alive! I am! And in five seconds I'm throwing you back to the wolves Unless you tell me why I'm sticking my neck out To save yours. Okay, okay, okay. Two months ago, I got a call from someone in the government. They wanted me to test a secret system of theirs For weaknesses.  They threw me in a bunker  Somewhere in the pacific northwest.  It was the most advanced, complex system I'd ever seen. For weeks, I tried breaking into this damn machine, until-- Mr. Dillinger!  Get mr. Casey off the streets! Immediately. What's got you spooked all of a sudden? Do what I tell you! Take him to the safest place you can think of,  And keep him there! Let's move. Mr. Dillinger, have you found a safe place for mr. Casey? You could say that. No, no, no, you can't bring him here. You have to take him somewhere else. Somewhere mr. And mrs. Smith can find him? The people looking for him cannot discover this location. Maybe you missed a few beats, but it's a war zone outside. Anyway, you can untwist your shorts, Because I made sure nobody followed us. Are you positive about that? I need to sit down. I need Get our friend a chair. This is like a nightmare. I don't understand any of it. Who are you people? You can call me harold. And this is my partner mr. Dillinger. It may not seem like it, but we're here to help you. Can I get you some tea? Hey. Until now, this job has been nothing But damsels and bankers. Casey has grade "a" government hit men after him. Hit men you know. What the hell are we up against here, harold? Your guess is as good as mine. I'll speak with mr. Casey after he's calmed down a bit. Perhaps we'd all be best served by your going outside And securing the perimeter To be certain that you weren't followed. You got it, boss. Am I interrupting? No ma'am. Perhaps you could elaborate On how a stealth operation to eliminate a liability Turned into a gunfight in the middle of manhattan. We had no reason to suspect Another party knew about daniel casey. You mean you got caught with your pants down. And now casey has a bodyguard? At this moment, the agency has no intel. Another reason why we should have taken care of this In-house. Our teams are nearly online. Cia kills casey because they think he's a traitor. Northern lights stays protected. If casey would have done his job And we had access to northern lights, We could find him in a heartbeat. Or anyone else, for that matter. All due respect, ma'am. We might not be in this situation If we hadn't killed nathan ingram. Who better to provide unfettered access to the source Than the man who built it? Nathan ingram outlived his usefulness. And he was dealt with accordingly. You might consider him a cautionary tale. Why don't you make yourself useful? Put this mess to bed by morning. Here's the problem. My supervisor wants this wrapped up asap. If you don't start talking, my partner will get involved. You don't want to interrupt her while she's eating.  Who do you work for? And what do you want with daniel casey? Good cop, bad cop? Don't make me laugh. If I wasn't in this chair I'd snap your neck like a twig. Tried to warn you pal. There's just one minor problem with that. You are in the chair. God, I love this stuff. You know what I like the most? Can't get enough of it. Rad. Excuse me? Your setup. I've never seen a unix variant like that before. It's rad. Thank you. But I don't see your battery backup. What happens when the power goes out? The library is powered by a few gas generators Scattered around the building. As long as there's fuel, the lights stay on. Off the grid. Looks like I came to the right place. You seem to know your way around systems pretty well, mr. Casey. I grew up in tucson. You gotta do something to pass the time. I started coding when I was ten. I could debug a system easier than carry a conversation. Guess I was never much of a people person. I'd say you're doing just fine for now. But I do know what you mean. Sometimes people can be rather complicated. A computer only does what you've programmed it to do. Exactly. At least that's what I used to think. What's that? What I spent the last two months working on. And probably why everyone's trying to kill me. What can you tell me about the work you were doing For the government? Started out as a normal job. Some system they wanted me to test. They put me up in a motel. No phone, no tv, guards around the clock. They'd drive me to and from the facility blindfolded. I mean, I didn't even know what state I was in. Seems a bit excessive: All that secrecy. Yeah, it almost seemed worth it once I saw the system. It was the most complicated layout I'd ever seen. Not to mention, the strongest heap of hardware I've ever tried to breach. Nothing I threw at it made a dent. So you were unable to find a weakness. Well, not until I found something Hidden in the bios interface. A backdoor: Took me straight into the operating system. A backdoor. I was in. Managed to get a few bits of code onto the laptop Before the system woke up and bit me. It adapted to my hack. Locked me out. The code you pulled Any idea what it was? It's so advanced it's almost alien. I've been able to isolate a few strings Of nine-digit numbers, but No clue what they mean. What happened after the system locked you out? I couldn't shake this feeling  That I wasn't testing the system. I was showing the government how to break into it. So I told them I was finished, Thanks for the gig. Then I felt a needle in my neck. And I blacked out. I woke up in the trunk of a car, With a suicide note in my pocket. Figured they planned on killing me somewhere And making it look like I did it myself. How did you manage to escape? Well, the car must have been going a hundred miles an hour In the driving rain. There was an accident. Bad. I got out of that car Because it was wrapped around a pole. Two guys in the front were dead. I grabbed my bag, Took the cash in their wallets and ran. Thought I'd be safe calling the ssci, but We know how that turned out. That's an incredible story, mr. Casey.  It certainly explains why the cia is after you. However, there is the question Of the man you met with earlier today.  That man went to a great deal of trouble to meet with you. We have no idea who he is or who he works for. But I think it's safe to say that the secret work you did For the government is no longer secret. Good evening, mr. Lambert. Understand you had difficulty in acquiring our prize. Cia acted more aggressively Than we anticipated. I tried to render casey in broad daylight. Is he in their custody now? Someone pulled him out of there. Private detail, watching his back. Cia did, however, capture one of our operatives. They're no doubt pressing him now as to who we are. I can divert resources to recover him. Our people can take care of themselves. Right now there's only one man on the planet of any value, And that's daniel casey. Very well, sir. Oh, mr. Lambert. Fail me again, and I'll find someone More adequate for the task. Are we clear on this? We are, mr. Greer. Thank you. This is an original edition of shannon and weaver's  Mathematical theory of communication. This is I believe the word you're looking for is "rad." Hey, uh, w-w-what are you doing with that? The fraction of code that you captured here Is not entirely unfamiliar to me. I was going to try to tweak it a bit. All right, well, just be careful, okay? It's the only thing keeping everyone from killing me. Besides you. You're right. In addition to the government wanting you dead, There is also a second interested party, About whom we know nothing. I've arranged for a sale on the darknet. You're gonna give it to them? No. I have a hunch that the group's concern Lies with the laptop and not the man carrying it. If we sell it, they might call off Their pursuit of you in favor of finding the code. Takes care of one group of psychos, But doesn't really help us with the cia. No, it doesn't. Which is why my partner is chartering a plane To fly you safely out of the country. Yeah, I won't get too far without a new identity. I had a buddy drawing up some papers for me as a "hail mary." Might be wise to avoid known associates At this time, if you can help it. And, in this case, you can. ITook the liberty  Of creating a new identity myself. Also a clean phone. Sounds like you thought of everything. So how long have you been running? I mean, look, it's obvious: This place, your setup. And I think you know more about that code Than you're willing to admit. I know that anyone that has contact with this system That you worked on Either ends up dead Or they lose so much, they wish they were. The truth is, besides mr. Dillinger, You're the only person that's ever been here. I have to ask you-- No, you don't. Harold, I owe you my life. However this shakes out, they catch me I won't tell them anything about you or this place. I hope you enjoyed the warm-up. 'cause we're about to run the triathlon.  First event "this little piggy." The second one I like to call "Glass jaw." Word of advice: Try not to swallow it. I'll leave the third one up to you. It'd be helpful to think about which body part You could live without. A word. Ol' ball and chain. I'll be back. I recognize that look. You're about to tell a girl she can't have any fun. I'm just waiting for the part where torturing this guy Helps us find casey. I'm just getting started. Give it time.  Trust me, the way you're threatening him, If he was gonna spill, he'd of done it by now. Oh, he'll spill. Whether he talks or not. That's new. We should've killed him hours ago. At least he took a shot at us. We don't even know what casey's guilty of. If I didn't know you any better, I'd say you were about to question orders. No. I'm gonna reacquire casey. And then I'm gonna kill him. Ready, gentlemen? Everything all right, mr. Dillinger? In a couple of hours our friend here's Gonna be on a plane to prague. Sencha green. Ah, thank you. I'll need just another hour to finish mr. Casey's documents. Once he's in the air, I need to fill you in on some other business We have to conclude. Selling casey's hardware. I hadn't told you that yet. I know. Because you're a very private person, harold. You only share things when it suits you. Not a very good deal for me. Probably wind up dead if I keep working for you. I don't know what's on this puppy, But I know a lot of people want it. So I lined up a buyer of my own. Turns out the chinese are more than a little curious To get their hands on some secret technology. Mr. Dillinger What have you done? You knew I was a shark when you hired me. Don't act surprised when I smell blood in the water. Stop, st-- There's no plane, is there? There is. It's just for me. You gonna turn me in? Do I look like I give a damn about what happens to you? Why don't you do what you do best? Run. Hello? Lester, it's me! You all right, kid? Yeah! Kinda. No. Look, Turns out I'm gonna need those papers after all. I just got it all in order. Why don't you Come by the office? I'll be here. Suppose that makes things easier. You don't have to hurt him. He's a good man. He doesn't deserve to die. A tsunami wipes out a village in india. Those are good people who don't deserve to die. Your friend is a traitor. And he's gonna get everything that's coming to him. Ohh Hello? Mr. Casey, are you all right? Yeah. I'd say you still got a few glitches in your operation. Where are you? I'll come and get you. No need. Gonna get my papers from lester and disappear. No, it's too dangerous, please, mr. Casey.  I can still get you out. You've done more than enough.  I'd be dead if it wasn't for you. And don't worry. I won't send you a postcard. Turn around. Slowly. You don't have to do this. Sure, I do. Daniel casey's an enemy of the state. A crime punishable by death. Who were you on the phone with? None of your business. You people have taken enough from me. You're not getting anything else. Any sign of casey, john? I've got eyes on him. Good. I'll secure things here. What is it they say about great minds? Little slow to the party, fellas. Keg's tapped.  We have casey. Would you consider a stay of execution? All I need is a little time alone with him. What's your deal with this guy? I just want to ask him a few questions. When I'm done, he's official property of The central intelligence agency. Everyone gets what they want. We all walk out of here alive. Sorry, pal. For what it's worth, You were never getting out of here alive. Kara?  I'm fine, john. Caught a little grief from the suicide squad, So I had to give it right back.  Killed most of them.  One got away. Gonna need a few minutes to sanitize the room. Oh, no. What about casey?  He still sucking air or what? Not anymore. I'll dump him in the water and meet you at the car. We should get you out of here. I don't understand. I've looked into the eyes of traitors before, casey. You're no traitor. You just look like a man who's trapped. You're gonna take the next bus headed to maine. When you arrive in caribou, A man will be waiting to drive you into canada. If he tells me you didn't show up, I'm gonna come looking for you. And when I find you, I'm gonna be in a very bad mood. Do you understand me? You get me outta here, I promise I disappear. Like a ghost. Good. One more thing, casey. Boss is gonna need proof of death. Couple of molars should do it. Care to do the honors? We clean? We're clean. Good. We're done here. Casey didn't have anything else on him. Whatever he stole is still out there. Not our problem. Powers that be said we're moving on. Don't know why, don't care. We've been reassigned. Where? Morocco. Forecast is 70 degrees and sunny. Smile, john. We just made the world a little safer tonight. Mr. Dillinger, wait! How the hell'd you find me? Tracked my phone, didn't you? Course you did. What the hell do you want, harold? You here to stop me or bury me in case this backfires? Can't have anything trace back to you--that it? You have to trust me. Trust you. How can I trust you when you don't trust anyone? It's like you said: The code is blood in the water. But you're not the only shark. There isn't a government on this planet That wouldn't kill to get it and they have, Mr. Dillinger. I knew you knew what this was. It has something to do with How you get your numbers, doesn't it? If you wanna fill me in, now's your chance. That's what I thought. Please, it doesn't have to be this way. You made it this way. By keeping me in the dark. They'll kill you. Thanks for the job, harold. Don't try to follow me. What happened last night? The man we thought to be casey's bodyguard Attempted to sell the laptop to the chinese. Our agent arrived and neutralized him. Then proceeded to dispatch several others. There was, however, a complication. One buyer got away with the laptop. So the agent failed. That's not how she put it in her debrief. She said if we'd sent her sooner, She'd have killed them all. She said what? To be honest, her exact words Were slightly more colorful than that. All things considered, I think we can expect great things from her. Didn't anyone ever tell you It isn't safe to be in the park at night? We have a lead on the location of the laptop.  The buyers were traced back to a software facility In ordos, china. The thing's more trouble than it's worth. The two cia agents on the casey job-- The ones that let the laptop get away in the first place-- Send them in to confirm it's the device. Then destroy it. Along with them. We can't risk these things getting back to us. Consider it done, ma'am. Mr. Dillinger, I Casey's dead. But I've managed to track his laptop to ordos, china. Glad you could salvage something from this, mr. Lambert. Get a team together. Daniel casey, I presume? How do you know that name? We have a mutual friend. In fact, that's why I've been sent here. Cute. You're gonna need that. Underneath the floorboard in your bedroom, You have $50,000 in cash and a fake passport. I'm gonna need you to grab it. Are we going somewhere? You are. Cartagena, colombia. You're looking for a man named greenfield. Sadly, I've got other places to be. Uh Look, you're really pretty and all, But this doesn't make any sense. All you need to understand Is you have a higher calling now,  So it's time for you to leave. Also, I may have attracted some attention on my way in here. Men with guns should be arriving any second.  When I turn that dial, You're gonna have about two minutes Before this place explodes. How do you know all this? Like I said We have a mutual friend. And right now, she needs your help.
You are being watched. The government has a secret system-- A machine that spies on you every hour of every day. Name's root. She's a hacker, extortionist, murderer. She hacks human beings As easily as she hacks computers. I don't wanna control their machine. I just want to set it free. I already did. The machine's given me a mission. Things are evolving. You say you're an interface, Your eyes and your ears are your ports, We can put a stop to that. I wish you'd listened. Then the drives would have never fallen into the wrong hands. Decima technologies. My samaritan, You are destined for great things.  Hey, new fish, You want a tip? No, thanks. That's too bad, 'cause you're getting the whole thing. Hey! Go check it out. Ma'am, hello? Are you okay? I'm fine. Thanks for asking. Aah! Get out there. We've got a problem. Go get 'em, biggie.  Show 'em what you got. You, hands in the air-- get down on the--aah! Oh, what have we here? Hey, baby. I want a piece of that. Hi, billy. Wanna get outta here?  Come on, sugar. Why don't you take me with--aghh!  My name's billy too! So do we know each other? All right, I have him. What's next? Who are you talking to? Who are you? Hello? Hello! Wrong side. I'm deaf in that ear. Can you do a german accent? Um Learn. Yes, thank you for noticing. Yes, thank you for noticing. Look, thanks for busting me out and all, But what the hell is going on? In your case, billy, I haven't figured that out yet. All I know is that the fate of the future Hangs in the balance, And you have some role to play. Shave. Yeah, I don't mean to complain, But I'm probably gonna die soon. The pants will be a bit long. So what do you need me to boost? You do know I'm a car thief, right? I don't know, don't care. My boss only gives me the information I need to do my job, And Right now I need you to learn this signature, fast. Uh, I'm gonna need a-- Hai chiizu. That's daizo.  I saved him from the tokyo police last month. He's been with me ever since. We good? Where were you when I got busted? Ridgestone psychiatric facility. Here we are. Where? No idea.  Domo. Oh, I love it when you do this. Not you. Go inside now. Dr. Schmitz? Dr. Schmitz, got a package for you. I.D. And signature, please. Did you change your hair? Yes, thank you for noticing. We should go before he gets here. Who? So what was all this? My boss and I are trying To stop something very bad from happening. So what do you think? Looks like that's where I'm headed next. Why? You'll find out when you get there. Thanks for playing. Now here's your lovely parting gift. At the second lunch table on the left in cell block d, Sit across from a 300-pound chickasaw named arnold. He loves dinosaurs as much as you do. Tell him that, and he'll have your back forever. There he is!  Police! Police! Don't move!  Stay right where you are. Put your hands in the air. So whom am I looking for this time? Powerful ceo? A rogue hacker? A hit man posing As a delivery guy? Hmm, fascinating. Hello, cyrus. I'm supposed to take you to breakfast. Just a pb&j, huh? You sure you wouldn't rather have some eggs? No, thanks. This is dinner for me. Working nights is all about routine. Gotta trick your body into going to sleep When the rest of the world is waking up. Same meal, same place every day, Or I don't sleep a wink. But I do appreciate the meal And the hot cocoa. Normally people ask more questions. Such as? "who are you?" "what do you want with me?" "what the hell's going on?" Que sera, sera. Whatever will be, will be. Took me a long time to see it, But there's an order to things, a plan. And everything that happens is part of it, Including you. But if it makes you feel any better, What the hell is going on? My boss wanted me to talk to you. Which means you and I are supposed To do something together, Something important. Sounds like you got a weird job. What's your boss want us to do? She won't say. She likes it better when I figure it out myself. Sounds like you have a weird boss. Well, now I go to the park for a walk, rain or shine. Fresh air helps me have good dreams. You're more than welcome to join if you like. You should know better Than to try to sneak up on me, harold. Did you come to welcome me back to new york? Actually, we're here for mr. Wells. His number came At 7:04 this morning. Your multifaceted machine Sure does work in mysterious ways, doesn't she? In this case perhaps not that mysterious. When mr. Reese and ms. Shaw accessed the security system In the building where he works, They found you approaching him At precisely 7:04 a.M. I've prepared a preliminary study of his digital footprint, And in my estimation the most dangerous thing In cyrus wells's life is you. Whatever your plan is, ms. Groves, I believe you're gonna get him killed. Relax, harold. Nobody's getting anybody killed. Cyrus is perfectly safe with me. If the machine sent us his number, It may mean that you are placing mr. Wells at risk. Or it could mean I'm here to protect him. Honestly, harold, keeping up with everything The machine whispers in my ear can be tricky, Especially now that I'm down to one. Oh, my. Oh, did you not hear about my chat with control? She's fun In an unnecessary stapedectomy kind of way. But I do miss music in stereo. I'm sorry. The machine offered me a job. She never said it would be easy. And what job is that exactly? Trying to save the world, of course. By preventing the emergence of a second machine. Samaritan. Genetically programmed, Fully targetable, and nearly complete. Samaritan presents a serious threat to our machine, harold. And decima's trying to bring it to life. Do you really want to see what it looks like When two gods go to war? Maybe you should be more worried About what happens when samaritan comes online Than about what happens to some janitor. How much do you know about this janitor, ms. Groves? Well He's got some interesting ideas About metaphysical determinism, And I think he's a doris day fan. Do you know that he has an mba in finance from fordham?  Do you know he was a multimillionaire  By the age of 35?  Do you know he hasn't worked  On wall street since 2009? Would you even care to know why? Perhaps you should ask the machine For a bit more information about cyrus wells Before you deem him insignificant. He'll be fine, I promise.  I know it seems weird, But I'm one of the good guys now, harold.  Third from the bottom, behind you. Root wouldn't take "go" for an answer? No, I'm afraid not. Seems that she thinks she has the situation Well in hand. Ms. Groves has never been particularly concerned About collateral damage,  Which may be precisely what cyrus wells is about to become. Watch over them until we can figure out What's going on. In the meantime, I'll try to determine What message this is meant to convey. Seems pretty clear to me, finch. I think she likes you, harold.  So I don't want to be rude or anything, But, yeah, Look, thank you for the hot cocoa, And it was nice of you to walk me home. But whatever it is you're doing right now is not-- Necessary. Trust me. I heard you skipped breakfast. And you and your australopithecine coworker Can just take the day off. I've been doing just fine without a safety net. Look, the only reason you're not stuck In a cage right now is me. Don't make me look bad. I couldn't make you look bad if I tried.  You should start packing your toiletries. Whoa, whoa, whoa. No, no, no, okay? Seriously, no. I have to work again tonight. I need to sleep, so it's time for you to leave. Actually, it's time for us both to leave. Things are about to get interesting. What? Why? Is this about what happened At my old job? What did happen? None of your business. Give me that. Who are these people, cyrus? Their names. It could be important. It's not. You have to go. Did they get hurt? Did you get hurt? I-I need to know what happened. Finch, I've got eyes on a sniper. And I might have a lead on who's doing the shooting. The solicitation ms. Groves gave me  Is visually identical to an image  Commonly sent out as spam. But digitally Someone has hidden a message inside the image.  It's encrypted with a running key cipher. But I can't decode it without-- "behind you, third from the bottom, De tocqueville. I believe I know who we're dealing with. Vigilance. We'll take her. You four get the target. It's happening again. Do you think you could do that later? 'cause we should probably go. No, no, no. Please. Guns make me very, very nervous. Well We've got a sniper outside And four heavily-armed privacy terrorists Coming up the north stairwell. So a gun would be nice, but You think of everything. Tear gas. Hold your breath. Wait. What about the sniper? Trust me. Wanna see who's got better aim? Aah! Got eyes on the target. I'm afraid vigilance may not be our only threat, mr. Reese. I decrypted their spam message, And it seems that vigilance is only targeting Mr. Wells because his name came up In a secret communique they intercepted From decima. I don't think root's our biggest problem anymore. Hey, who are those guys? I told you things were gonna get interesting. The target's in sight, sir. We're moving in. Shouldn't we run? Shh. I can't hear my boss. Hi, here's $20. Whoa, why are we stopping? Because there are more where those four came from. And this is the quickest way to get you out of here Without shooting someone. Keep your shoulders relaxed When they put the handcuffs on. You!  Hands in the air. What? Hands in the air. Ow. Cyrus is safe, finch. But we'll need fusco's help to keep it that way. And ms. Groves? Gone. So are the boys from decima. Do we have any idea what cyrus did  To piss off both them and vigilance? As far as I can tell, nothing. But whatever's going on, I'm starting to suspect That it has more to do with his new job than his old one. I hacked the computer system At the janitorial service that employs cyrus And discovered they recently ran a background check on him.  Why? What kind of janitor needs a background check? Something to look into When we reconnect with ms. Shaw.  I lost her signal when the shooting started. She said she saw a sniper.  But I don't see any sign of her here. Between shaw and cyrus, I think I know who needs our help more. Then I'm afraid we'll have to trust ms. Shaw To take care of herself. Now that you're not gonna die, we can have a little chat. So you need a hospital, And I need to know why everyone's after the janitor. You owe me a sniper. This is collier, right? Or at least that's your alias? Can't say I know yours. So I'll just call you a target of opportunity. Vigilance came here to interrogate cyrus wells, But now we're here for you.  See, based on the way you fight,  I think you were a clandestine operative  For the good old u.S. Of a. But based on the people you protect, I think you're not anymore. And I'm guessing it's because they betrayed you.  Are you guys gonna shoot again Or just talk me to death? Well, actually I'm more interested In what you have to say.  So I've taken the liberty  Of sealing off the exits. Now in exchange for everything you know About the samaritan system And the people that are trying to build it, I'm prepared to offer you something That no one else can--  Revenge on the government that betrayed you. And if I refuse? In the words of benjamin franklin, Join or die. Have you secured mr. Wells, detective? Yeah, I got him. And I'm clearing up the charges too. You're welcome very much. A phrase which now makes my thanks Seem less than sincere, detective. I'm sending you gps coordinates For a rendezvous with mr. Reese, Who will henceforth protect mr. Wells. All right. Okay, pal, let's get you out of here. Come on, this way. You forgot to transfer from savings again, lionel. Your rent check's gonna bounce. Hi, cyrus. Hey. Hey, nice try, cocoa puffs. There's no way I'm letting him leave here with you. I understand. But there are things you don't know. For starters, you don't know that cyrus Is currently wanted by not one, but two Very dangerous organizations. And you have no idea that there are currently to this location, The closest of whom is carrying Two concealed firearms and a push dagger He used to kill three people in dubai last month-- One of them just for fun. I don't care how big your brain is. Nobody's taking this guy from me Without a big fat federal warrant, you got that? Joined the bureau last month to get access To a nuclear plant in tulsa. Long story. Is there a problem here, fusco? Um, no captain. There's no problem. Is there a back way out of here? Yeah, it's, uh-- I wasn't asking you. You let her what? She had a warrant-- a real one. What was I supposed to say? "sorry, boss, agent king is actually "a superpowered nutball. Just ask my buddy, the urban legend." Relax, john.  Have a little faith. You're making a mistake. Cyrus is safer with me. You don't really believe that, do you? Have you and harold even figured out Why decima is after him yet? That power you have? I've had it too. I know just what it's like to have All those answers buzzing in your ear. But at the end of the day, you still make choices.  And if the choice you're making now  Gets cyrus killed-- whatever happens, I'll be there to save him, Just like I was there to save you. After everything we've been through together, john, You really should trust me. Are you sure it's safe here? I can protect you anywhere. I thought this place might help you relax. Sorry I've kept you up past your bedtime. Yeah, that's all right. To tell the truth, I don't sleep very well anyway. Yeah, about that-- I'd still like to know what happened. Your boss seems to know everything. Why don't you ask her? I did. She won't tell me. Please, cyrus, who are these people? Sarah lind and alex rice-- My best friends from college. After graduation, they started a small Financial services firm and brought me on To help 'em run it. When everybody was betting big on the housing market, We played it safe. So when the crash came, We went from a small start-up to a major player. But somebody was jealous. 'cause one day a guy walked into our office And started shooting. Alex and sarah were killed. Five others were shot, including me. The gunman was never identified. And when was this, exactly? April 4, 2009. I'm sorry. Don't be. Ten weeks in I.C.U. Makes you Take a long, hard look at things. I realized I had wasted the first 30 years of my life Putting zeros on my bank account. So I gave all my money away to charity. Now I get up every night And keep that building spic and span. 'cause who doesn't like clean floors? Que sera, sera. What happened that day was part of a plan. No. No, what-- Whatever this was, believe me, It was not part of some grand cosmic plan. We need to go. They're almost here. We're at the coordinates you sent, sir.  But we can't get a visual on the targets. You will. Deploy the countermeasure. Can you hear me? What do we do now? Run. Get in the car! Cyrus! I guess you better answer that. Drop the weapon! Drop it now! I don't like killing patriots, So I'm gonna give you one more chance. That's funny, I was gonna say the same thing to you. See, I knew we had something in common-- Many things, I suspect. You're not the only one the government has betrayed. And that's why I want your help. See, america's dying. And everybody knows it. It's not just about privacy, it's about principle. Our nation is assassinating people with drones, Holding them without due process, And, yes, spying on its own people Without cause or limits and in direct violation Of our constitution. But we have a plan to stop it. And if you join us, You will not only have your revenge, But you will help write a new chapter In american history. You're right about all of it.  I did work for the government, And I do want revenge.  But if that work taught me anything, It's that how you do matters as much As what you do. And by that metric, you're all just terrorists. And I kill terrorists. I lost decima's trail About a mile from the park. Do we have any other way to find cyrus? Not at the moment. But I may have discovered why decima wants him. I've located the original communique  That vigilance intercepted from decima, The message that started all of this. It lists cyrus as 1 of 15 people With retinal access. As in retinal scanner? So somewhere out there is a door, And cyrus wells' eye is the key. I believe I might know where that door is. After passing his background check at work, Cyrus became the only custodian Allowed on the 19th floor. What's on the 19th floor? A company called "maxwell limited." All I know about them so far is that They take regular deliveries of liquid helium. I'm guessing they're not blowing up balloons. Maxwell could be using it to cool Anything from biomedical reactors to-- The fastest computer ever built. Maxwell's the corporate cover for an nsa lab. And two days ago, somebody working In that lab sent this. Oh, my. Okay, finch, what am I missing here? It's a note from one computer scientist to another, Detailing the specifications of a superconducting processor, Three times faster than anything now available. And since the government's not about to sell it to them, Decima plans to use cyrus to steal it. The original samaritan crashed because a chip Fast enough to run it hadn't been built yet. Two days ago, somebody built it.  Decima has the software. Now they want the hardware. Right now, I'm more worried about cyrus. As soon as he opens that door, Decima's gonna kill him. I suppose you'll be joining mr. Reese. Not just yet. Decima's severed my link to the machine. Temporarily, but she didn't like that. So She wants you to patch these into this. The last time you didn't help us When you should have, people died. And once this device is installed, Which will you save: The chip or cyrus wells?  Since it was you who put him in danger. Fine, harold. It's all my fault-- Mine and the machine's. Happy? Far from it, but I do believe That there's a lesson here about hubris. Well, if anyone would know about hubris, It would be the man who built god. She's worried about you, harold. We both are. The past three months, you've slept an average Of four hours per night. My problems are no concern of yours, ms. Groves. Perhaps if you had In cyrus's welfare, he might not be about-- By your own definition, Cyrus is irrelevant. Everyone is relevant to someone. That man has spent every day of his life Believing that there is actually Some sort of higher plan. That's the problem with humans-- They just sit around, hoping that Someone will fix things. But no one will. No one cares. The universe is infinite And chaotic and cold. And there has never been a plan. At least not till now. You wanna know what the plan was The day they died? The plan was for someone to make $15 million. An executive at a big bank wanted them dead, So he wired the money to someone with the skills, Resources, and moral depravity to make that happen. And that someone was me. And the punch line Is that your machine keeps telling me to save cyrus. How badly did you have to break it To make it care about people so much? That didn't break it. It's what made it work.  It was only after I taught the machine That people mattered, that it could begin To be able to help them. I'd like to do the same thing for you, If you'd let me. In the first 30 minutes After samaritan comes online, A lot of people are gonna be killed. But they're gonna start with four: You, me, Your helper monkey, and shaw. And there won't be a damn thing anyone, Including your machine, can do to stop it. You think I don't care about people, harold? I'm doing all of this to save you. Sorry, doctor. I didn't have time to make an appointment. But I know you'll make an exception for me. Really? And, uh, how do you know that? The same way I know I can put a bullet through your hand Before you can dial 911. The same way I know you're the best otolaryngologist In 250 miles. Okay, uh, what do you want? Drugs? Not really. Although a little lidocaine would be nice. I didn't get any the last time. You see, somebody broke my ear. And you're gonna fix it. Building security has been neutralized. We're ready to take the chip. Then let's begin, shall we? Very good. You may dispose of him now. Wait. What are you-- no, let me go! Please. The minimum healing time is three weeks before-- Unfortunately, I'm on a bit of a schedule. And I won't be needing that. Okay, I'm turning it on. Now you're going to hear a series of tones. I can hear you. I didn't start yet. I wasn't talking to you. We're in the lab. Take all the research, wipe the computers,  And locate the chip.  Haste makes waste. The chamber is cooled to within a few degrees Of absolute zero. Opening now would kill you all. And more importantly damage the chip. Listen closely to the warm-up protocol And do exactly as I say. No, no, please, don't. Settle down. It'll all be over soon. We got plenty of bleach. Oh, no, no, no. This is not the plan. This can't be the plan. Oh, god! What did you say to him? She is persistent. Countermeasures. 233 kelvin. The chamber is now safe.  Get the chip and go. Fusco. I'm gonna try to get to cyrus. Be ready to cover me. He'll just run away again. He doesn't like guns. You think the machine's gonna help you dodge bullets? No. It's okay. I'm coming to you. Hey, cyrus, wanna get out of here? The maxwell chip is in custody, sir.  We've cleared the perimeter. Then our work here is done. Do tidy up, please. Cyrus is safe, finch, But decima got away with the chip. That may not be our only loss. I still haven't heard from miss-- What happened to you guys? You missed all the fun. What are they saying? I know you can't bluejack her anymore. But do you expect us to believe you didn't bug that balcony? I suppose I thought they deserved some privacy. Looks like it's time to go. I hope you don't mind starting a new life. I was about due for one. Besides, it's all part of the plan. Keep 'em dry. Change the dressings every 72 hours. I love it when you play doctor. Was it just a coincidence-- Cyrus and me? Or was the machine trying to make some sort of point? You'd have to ask the machine. I did. She's not telling. Did you inform mr. Wells About your role in his past? I wanted to. But that would've been for me. What cyrus believes, it-- It helps him. And who am I to say he's wrong? She wants me on a plane to paraguay in 20 minutes. About that-- You're not wrong about the threat samaritan poses. And though you and I may not see eye to eye on some things, Perhaps we should collaborate a bit more. Toward that end-- Detective fusco is here to take me Where I need to go. Hello, lionel. Hey, cuckoo's nest, the meter's running. Your smoke alarm's gonna start beeping at 2:41 a.M.
You are being watched. The government has a secret system-- A machine that spies on you every hour of every day. I designed the machine to detect acts of terror, But it sees everything Violent crimes involving ordinary people. The government considers these people irrelevant. We don't. Hunted by the authorities, we work in secret. You will never find us. But victim or perpetrator, If your number's up, we'll find you. Bear! No, no, no. He found the treats. Come on. Go! He's a military working dog, finch. Search and rescue, Trained to track people, uncover explosives. I suppose moliere is no challenge at all. Maybe I should have bear track down ms. Shaw. I thought you put her on the new number.  I did, but communication is not her strong suit. Tally-ho, finch. Our engineer's in sight. These turbine blades are missing a customs clearance. As soon as they get to kenya, The locals will demand a bribe to clear them. But, since we're out of time, Call benny at the mombasa customs house. Tell him there's a bottle of kentucky bourbon  With his name on it. Our girl's got more foreign contacts Than reese and I combined. Indeed. Maria martinez is quite the world traveler. Masters in engineering from stanford. She works for hydral corp, a private energy company. She's currently working on reconstruction projects In third-world countries. She digs wells? Builds multimillion-dollar generators is more like it. Her last project was replacing the generators Inside a hydroelectric dam in iraq. Maria! Great work here, adding the gps trackers. Considering everything we went through To get those generators into the country and assemble them. Can't afford to lose anything, like we did in iraq. We have to make sure our supply chain and sources Are beyond reproach. That's ken davis, maria's boss.  He runs hydral corp. Excuse me, I have to take this. Mm-hmm. Hello?  The package is ready. But we can't talk on the phone.  Meet at the usual place in an hour. Yeah. Didn't see that comin'. Maria just took a five-finger discount on a gps tracker. I'm sorry, I have to go. Everything all right? Just a meeting with a supplier I forgot about. Mm, okay. Thank you. And she lied to her boss. Plus this delivery of a mysterious package? Sounds like pre-operational tactics. Tactics? Of what? A terrorist cell. If maria were a relevant number, She would fall under the government's purview. Maybe the machine got its wires crossed. Ever since it's had that cochlear cuckoo on speed dial-- I fail to see how its relationship with ms. Groves Has anything to do with this. Do you really think that our number could be a terrorist? I believe shaw's gonna need our backup. Hello, harold. You wanted to talk to me? Or her? How did you-- never mind.  I was curious-- I don't know anything about your little number, harold.  I'm pursing a much larger objective. The chip that decima stole. Has the machine directed you to-- That chip has already been back-engineered And thousands of copies are being generated As we speak.  Enough to run samaritan at full power. The machine has alerted me That our elusive adversary is back in town. Eliminating him might be our last chance At stopping samaritan. I'll be in touch the next time my ear starts burning. Do you have my position? Good. I've made a new friend, But I'm not feeling particularly sociable. Have our asset at parkhurst security go blind. Direction? Got it. A little volume, please. There you are. Going dark. Rendezvous in two minutes. What the hell, lady? Sorry. Thought you were my uncle. Beirut. Baghdad. Baghdad for masguf. Saddam knew his fish. I'll give you that. But shawarma? Beirut, hands down. He can't go back. I'm doing everything I can. They won't release him. We must do something now. I traced maria's earlier phone call. Jamal risha is an iraqi who immigrated to the u.S. Two years ago. This man, he won't see me. He won't even talk to me. He's the only thing blocking omar. We can't just leave my brother behind. Finch, you hear that? According to the immigration and customs enforcement database, Omar risha was detained by the department of homeland security After landing at jfk a week ago. Where are they holding him now? A high-security detention center in manhattan Under special administrative measures. Those are reserved for terrorism suspects. We have a small window of opportunity to make an impact. This should open their eyes. Big bombs keep coming in little packages. Like the shoe bomber. I'll keep eyes on jamal. See if he has any other contacts. I'll stick close to our friend maria. Figure out what the hell she's gotten herself into. Thanks for the sandwich. But why do you gotta drag me all the way up here, Just to watch your girl snap a few memories? When's the last time you saw a new yorker from the village Take tourist photos at the u.N.? Mm. That's a good point. If you're so smart, what do you need me for? You can't park here! Security precaution. Yeah, I got one of those. Way to make yourself useful, lionel. You know, I don't understand all the hoopla with the u.N. Anyway.  Bunch of silver-spoon bureaucrats, if you ask me. And don't even get me started With the extraterritorial privileges either. Oh, I should've just stolen a badge. How many countries you think there are in the u.N.? Like 50-something? You know, you really should get out more. Learn something about other cultures. What are you talking about? I just ate a falafel. Yeah, and you got some on your tie. That's the second tie this week. Maria's taking photos of the interior of the u.N. Compound. Surveillance is the last planning stage before an attack. Wait. She's not shooting the compound. She's taking pictures of this guy. Photo's on its way, finch. I don't know who the suit is. The man in the photo is rene lapointe: A french diplomat and current united nations high commissioner For refugees. He's responsible for approving the asylum request Of jamal's brother omar. He just triggered our jihad jane to go live. Maria just stopped his car.  She's putting something-- Miss shaw, what is it? Oh, that was smooth.  I couldn't have done that better myself. She just placed the gps tracker onto lapointe's limo. She's tracking him. Taxi! And, more importantly I think we just identified her target.  All these fat-cat diplomats travel all over the world, Eatin' on someone else's dime While they talk about feeding the poor. Maybe you ought to consider applying for a passport. I have a passport. My ex and I went to saint thomas for our honeymoon. You mean the u.S. Virgin islands?  Okay, there's our girl. Your engineer pulls one hell of a changing act. Yeah, dressed to kill. She's still got that package in her shoulder bag. Go ahead, I'll watch the front. We might have a problem, finch. Maria's closing in on her target. You want proof? There's proof. Is everything all right, ms. Shaw? False alarm. Unless we're worried about paper cuts. Sorry, do I know you? Omar risha is not a terrorist. He worked for u.S. Forces in iraq And for my company as a translator. There's a recommendation in here from my boss ken davis.  What more proof do you want? Let me guess. You must be maria? In person. Maria, the u.S. Department of homeland security Has asked me to weigh all the evidence Before classifying refugees. What evidence do you have to the contrary? That is confidential. But, let me assure you, Omar risha will have a fair hearing. Now if you'll excuse me. Look, I get it. Just tell me What's the going rate? Are you insane? I am not leaving until I get an answer. Security! Excuse me, ma'am. Please come with us. Sorry, gentlemen. She's with me. It's okay, I know her. Allow me to take care of this. Finch? Maria was about to get tossed out When this guy stepped in. You work with ken davis. He's a friend. I'm sorry about all this. I don't wanna burden you with my problems. What's this all about? My former interpreter from iraq Is being held on suspicion of terrorism And might be deported. I know it's a false allegation. But that jerk won't believe me. Monsieur lapointe may be lazy, even corrupt, But you don't get all that power By being a nice guy. There are ways around men like him. I don't know what else to do. Perhaps I can help.  Without companies like hydral corp That build infrastructure, The united nations would never accomplish anything. Unfortunately, some of the old guard prefer  To bite the hand that feeds. Let me make a few calls. If you need anything else Thank you. Looks like maria just found herself a white knight. Christos sevon: A career diplomat from greece currently serving On the u.N. Sustainable energy program.  He raises funds to support reconstruction projects Like the one maria worked on in iraq. Well, he's offered to help get omar into the country. Let's hope that he doesn't live to regret that decision. We need to get a look at that evidence against omar. Sounds like omar could use a good lawyer. Perhaps it's time mr. Reese and I Did a little pro bono work. How can I help you and your associates, Mr. Kingfisher? My firm represents several refugees Who worked for the u.S. Government in iraq Now seeking asylum. There are concerns about refugees from iraq Immigrating to the u.S. Yes, we're--we're aware. One of our clients-- omar risha-- Is being detained for alleged links to terrorism. I know monsieur risha's case well. In fact, I have to make a final decision on it this week. May I? If I'm to prepare a legal defense, I require all of the facts. You may review it, but here. Thank you. I received that letter from the iraqi government last week. The ministry of the interior say they have proof That omar is involved in terrorist activity. I'm sorry. Um, the ministry of the interior is hardly reliable. It's full of former shia militia members. They view iraqis that helped american forces As traitors. Three years ago, two terrorists Who killed u.S. Soldiers in iraq Were discovered living in bowling green, kentucky. They fooled immigration officials By posing as former interpreters. Yes, but, surely, such an isolated case Should not affect the plight of thousands. I can't afford to put my signature On an application of a potential terrorist,  However small the probability. If one more terrorist slips through, It will jeopardize all the other refugees Seeking asylum. You understand. Understood. Thank you for your time. Thank you. Well, it's difficult to determine the authenticity Of the letter.  Any new developments on your end, ms. Shaw? She takes the 7 train to get home. Does that help? Jamal, good news. I found someone in a position we can leverage. Call me back, and I'll explain. Thank you. How many extra mags you got? Extra mags? You serious? Finch, we're gonna need some backup. Mind? Personally, I prefer potassium chloride to chloroform. Acts quicker and no trace in postmortem toxicology. And the other thing about chloroform, it stinks. Who the hell was that? French algerian. With a maserin bolt knife. I'd say french foreign legion. You've made friends all over the world, maria. Foreign legion? Why would they wanna kill me? I don't know. I don't speak french. Finch, what's our eta on captain america? Mr. Reese should be with you directly. Stay close to the wall. I'm guessing this guy might have some friends. Guess that falafel didn't slow you down. Is that it? Any more? Maria, get down! Your boy there's got issues. Hope that guy has health insurance. What's up with the evel knievel stunt? They didn't teach you that in marine jump school? Only if a 5-cent piece of lead won't get you out the door. But thanks for coming. You're welcome. I'm sorry to interrupt, but who the hell are you guys? We're a lot like you, ms. Martinez. We help people in less fortunate circumstances.  We only require one thing in return for our services. What's that? The truth. Why are you trying to get omar risha into the u.S.? Omar was my interpreter on my last project. We were in a convoy transporting six generators From kuwait to iraq when we were ambushed. I jumped into a ditch, about to be overrun, When omar jumped in next to me And shot two of the terrorists. The rest fled. He saved my life. Sounds like he deserves a medal. After I left iraq, Omar started receiving death threats. If he's sent back, he'll be killed. What do french legionnaires have to do with this? I don't know. The day before omar left, he wanted to talk to me About some generators that went missing in iraq. He didn't wanna talk about it on the phone. The iraqi ministry of the interior Sent this letter to the u.N. Stating that omar has links to terrorist groups. This is not true. Why would someone do this? Detective fusco arrested the injured legionnaire. Perhaps, when he wakes up, he can answer that question. They could be working for a foreign intelligence service. They could also be working For the u.N. High commissioner lapointe. His last post Was head of u.N. Peacekeeping in the congo. Among the units under his control Was a company of french legionnaires. Why would lapointe wanna kill me For trying to help omar get into the u.S.? We need to talk to omar. He could shed some light on this. It's impossible. He's being held incommunicado. We can't even trust his government-appointed lawyer To deliver a message. Maybe he'll talk to his new representation. Like I told my last attorney, I'm not talking to you. We're not with the government, mr. Risha. We're friends of maria martinez. Or maybe you work with the people That are setting me up. Maria told us how you saved her life in iraq. I'm sorry I don't have more proof, But we don't have much time. Last night, a team of legionnaires Made an attempt on maria's life. What? Is she okay? She's fine. And she's in a safe place. But there was something important You wanted to tell maria During your last conversation? About the generators. The ones at the energy project That she worked on in iraq? After maria left, The generators were never installed. The hydroelectric plant failed. The entire province went dark. Hospitals had no electricity. Patients died on operating tables. The local police lost control. Within a week, al-qaeda moved back in. What happened to the generators? That's what I wanted to tell maria. Right before I left, I translated a contract For the transportation of six generators. A contract signed by whom? Are you sure you can protect maria? Yes. Why? Because it was her boss. Ken davis. Davis? Why would he ship generators all the way to iraq Only to turn around and ship them somewhere else? Maybe he got a better offer. Maria had davis write A letter of recommendation in your behalf.  That must be where he realized that, if the two of you Were ever reunited, you would tell her About his involvement with the missing generators. Your asylum request has been denied.  Your ride home departs in an hour. No, this is a mistake. Please! They'll kill me if I go back! Hey! I just sent you information On a new lead, detective. It appears that maria's boss redirected The missing generators in iraq to an unknown destination. How'd he do that? I'm not sure, but omar knew about it. Ken davis arranged for him to be deported  Back to iraq where he'll be killed. Davis doesn't have that kind of authority. But he certainly has the resources  To convince a corrupt u.N. Diplomat  To do his dirty work. Yeah, well, I think I'm gonna have to pay davis a visit.  Please hurry, detective.  We haven't much time. Why would davis steal the generators? We're looking into that now. I have to get to omar. You're not going anywhere With the legionnaires still out there. Guy engineered this place with an armored door And electromagnetic locks: You're safe here. You don't understand. They will kill omar if he returns to iraq. Please. Are you gonna cry? What? Hold on a sec. You and omar were more than just business associates, Weren't you? Every time I ran into a problem-- This sheikh, that tribe, this corrupt official-- It was always omar who solved it.  By bringing people together. That's why I fell in love with him. He would take me to the desert at night to drink cinnamon tea And count the stars. Have you ever been to the desert at night? The only thing I remember about the desert Is wiping the film Off the top of a warm glass of camel's milk. That's where the bacteria breed. Good advice. Omar and I, We hoped to get married when he got here. He deserves asylum. I have to stop his deportation. I need to get to him. Maria, you have to trust us. Why? My mother was an academic back in iran. When the ayatollah and his fanatics Took over in '79, Someone risked his life smuggling my mom out of there. If it weren't for him-- you'd have never been born. Those fanatics That could've killed my mom in iran Are the same fanatics That will kill omar if he returns to iraq. Just different stripes. But we're not gonna let that happen. How are you gonna stop it? Davis has a u.N. Diplomat in his pocket And false accusations from the iraqi government. Did you read this? "according to a trusted source beyond reproach, Omar risha has ties to--" Wait. Davis's recommendation? "because of his impeccable integrity "and trustworthiness, Omar is a man beyond reproach." Davis wrote both letters. Iraqi government letterhead, The format are the same. He forged it. And the original is in lapointe's office. I have to get it. Oh, you can't get in there. No, no, I know someone. I know a way. Maria. You're not going anywhere. You have to trust us. Yes, maria martinez is an employee of mine. Something happen to her, detective? You're a big energy guy, right?  International businessman? Friends in high places? Even the u.N.? If you don't mind, I have a schedule to keep. Oh, yeah? You have another meeting scheduled With your friend inside the u.N.? The one you've been calling every day? What is this? Metadata? This is a massive violation of my civil liberties. Oh, we've already issued a warrant For your corrupt french pal lapointe For the attempted murder of maria martinez. As soon as he flips, We'll have the forged document you sent to the u.N. Naming omar risha a terrorist. This is absurd. Where's my attorney? See, omar found out about the generators. So you had him shipped back, knowing he'd be killed. Then you tried to kill maria too. Last I checked, Your little nypd fiefdom Doesn't extend into the united nations. Good luck using your tin badge to get in there, detective. You really think you're a big shot, huh? Get a couple bureaucrats in your pocket, Grease the contracts. You don't care who dies. Including your own employees. Unless the d.A.'s ready to charge my client, we're leaving. If you're going to wade into international waters, Detective, I suggest you get a bigger boat. Any word on omar? I could use a drink. So could I. My boys keep a single malt in here somewhere. Thank god finch buys top shelf. Oh, finch! Damn engineers. Mr. Reese, they're loading omar for deportation.  We have to do something. I'm going to pursue. No need, finch. I'm on it. Let's hit it. Roger that. Ms. Shaw, good news. Mr. Reese has rescued omar. That's great. Except we just lost maria, And the legionnaires are still out there Looking for her. And what's worse, I think she's headed to lapointe's office.  Straight into the lion's den. Please, I have an appointment with mr. Sevon. He's a greek diplomat. I don't have much time. Sorry, lady. No badge, no entry. What's the problem here? She's my guest. Yes, sir. We have to hurry. Maria, when I said I'd help, I meant making a few calls-- Lapointe denied omar's asylum based on a forged letter From the iraqi government. That letter is in lapointe's office, and I need to get to it. This is absurd. We can't just break into the high commissioner's office. There are proper channels we can follow. Davis conspired with lapointe to have omar killed. And now they want me dead too. What? Why would they do that? To cover up the theft of six generators in iraq. Look, I will explain the rest later, But right now I need to get that letter. I'll take you as far as lapointe's office. But then the rest is up to you. Thank you. You're not a guard. And you're not a terrorist. We know you saved maria's life in iraq. We're here to return the favor. That's why you're helping me? Let's just say we all know what it's like To leave someone behind. I love maria. From the first time I met her. Where is she now? She's headed to the u.N. To get evidence To bring down lapointe and davis. But not if they get to her first. We'll we've got to get her out of there before it's too late. Are you really suggesting we break into the united nations? They have triple-layered security.  Infrared cameras with motion detection. I have an idea. But it's going to require a smoke screen And a big-ass truck. I'm in position outside the u.N. Compound. Gonna need to step on it, reese. Ready on this end. Open wide, sister. There's a report of smoke on the fourth floor. Call 911. Fire department's already here. We need to evacuate the building. Stop playing with the horn, lionel. Ever since I was a kid, I always wanted to drive one of these things. Here, you're gonna need this. Have you told anyone about lapointe? The original of the letter has to be here somewhere. We should stop while we're ahead. I am not leaving until I clear omar's name. Find anything on davis, finch? Seems he's deleted all his email correspondence. Ms. Groves, I'm a bit occupied at the moment. Try "habur gate," harold. "Habur gate"? What does that mean? I don't know. But you're welcome. Oh, and, by the way I'm borrowing your dog. Customs clearance.  Six generators. Requested by Oh, no. Where's the fire, mes amis ? Here. I found it. Good. We should go. He could be here any minute. What the hell? I should have known it was you When I received a call from the guards. And what are you doing here? Excusez-moi, monsieur lapointe. I didn't know you spoke french. That's the first thing they teach you In the foreign legion. Consider this payback for what you did to my friend. What's so funny? Second round is always more accurate than the first. What second round? You're not even holding a gun. I wasn't talking about me. Excusez-moi! So much for payback. Come on, come on. It's a shame, really. After all I did to help you. You're working with davis? Why? You don't understand how the real world works. I learned a long time ago, As a legionnaire based in rwanda. They used us to protect those who committed genocide. Realpolitiks.  This is about greed, not politics. You have no loyalty. Look at where your loyalty has landed you. You know the worst thing about dying on a u.N. Property? Extraterritorial privileges. Makes it very difficult for the nypd to investigate. Somebody call 911? Drop the gun. Or what, detective? Or I'm gonna get realpolitik-y on your ass. You and davis stole the generators from iraq. You have no proof. "habur gate" ring a bell?  Habur gate: That's the border crossing Between iraq and turkey. Next time have someone else sign the customs form. Go figure. Turns out immunity doesn't stop you from bleeding. That's what I call "diplomacy." Maria. Oh, my god, I can't believe you're here! Gonna need to step it up, boys. Sounds like the cavalry's on its way. Come on. Let's go. -We gotta go! How'd you find this place? Someone recommended the view. Hmm. Hmm. The office of the high commissioner Just sent this over. Congratulations. Your asylum's officially been approved. And sevon? Greece revoked his diplomatic immunity. Nypd arrested him for the murder of lapointe. Thank you, detective, and your friends. For everything. Welcome to new york. Hey, what's up? Thought the case was closed. You did good tonight, lionel. Glass of champagne, best you got. I thought you didn't drink. March 20th. Persian new year. I thought you didn't care about foreign cultures. That's what's great about new york. You don't have to travel to learn about other cultures. They all come here. My father brought my mother here on their first date. No kidding. Nice place. It's changed names a couple times, But the view's still the same. Get outta here, fusco. Happy new year, sameen. It may not be the desert stars, But there's nothing like the new york city skyline. And davis? According to detective fusco, He's flown the coop. And with his international connections He could be anywhere. Maybe one of our allies will scoop him up. Speaking of allies I do hope that root isn't feeding bear any chocolate. Sit. Sit. I've secured the generators you were looking for. They shipped from akcaabat port last week. What are you trying to power? New york city? Sorry to hear about your friend sevon. But just as well. He worked for an antiquated institution. Hard to believe that nation states still think They have any influence, even in cooperation. Sevon got sloppy. I can't afford such liabilities. Then lucky for me I'm careful. Indeed. Walk. Go blind. Which way, bear? That a boy. Hello, ms. Groves. Sit, boy. I commend your tracking abilities. Sense of smell is often the most neglected Of the five senses. And one which machines can't replicate. At leastNot yet. When I was a boy, we had a foxhound called-- Churchill. Shall we cut to the chase? You have some things that don't belong to you-- Two hard drives, a superconducting chip, And six generators. Which means, Either your planning to bring samaritan online Or you're the world's most ambitious gamer. Why waste time arguing about small battles, When we could be discussing the larger war? Perhaps you and I have more in common than you think. I don't think so. I want the machine to be free. You wanna control it. I won't bore you with academic theories About competing civilizations. It's human nature to want to control the means To wealth, hmm? Whether it be salt or gold or oil. Or information. It is the new currency. And if someone's gonna control it, It might as well be you? Imagine What it would be like to merge, permanently. I could use someone with such capabilities. And why would I do that? Because I know what you know to be true, ms. Groves, hmm? Everyone thinks you're crazy. But I don't. Because we understand what's coming. What's about to happen. Don't we? And what makes you think you're in any position To negotiate?  Touche. I never feel civilized Negotiating from the end of a barrel. Either end. Shall we call this one a draw? Very well. Perhaps next time we meet You'll reconsider my offer.
You are being watched. The government has a secret system-- A machine that spies on you every hour of every day. I designed the machine to detect acts of terror, But it sees everything Violent crimes involving ordinary people. The government considers these people irrelevant. We don't. Hunted by the authorities, we work in secret. You will never find us. But victim or perpetrator, If your number's up, we'll find you. Is it just me, or is it getting harder To tell these tourists apart? Don't appreciate visitors, shaw? I don't appreciate their fanny packs. Pretty handy for concealing a grenade. Taxi! Got eyes on our number, finch. Leona wainwright, clerical assistant In the office of personnel management. The opm manages everything from background checks To pension benefits. Federal. So leona lives in d.C. She's in town to see a broadway show. Is that why you had us dress up, harold? An evening at the theater? You keep an open mind, miss shaw, You might actually enjoy yourself. What's the show? Mamma mia. Whose turn is it to save this one? Let's flip for it. Heads. Guess it's your turn. Leona's cab hasn't moved. Medallion number two, x-ray, zero, three. That number is registered to a mr. Sanjeev verma. Doesn't look like a sanjeev to me. Shaw, gonna need your help now. Say the name. Shaw, cabbie's phone. Mr. Reese? Where's leona? Sorry, finch. Neither of you could have predicted That the threat to ms. Wainwright Was soImmediate. The cellular phone you retrieved Was activated yesterday. It was registered to one jonathan plowman, junior. I'm guessing that's not the cabbie's real name. Correct. Jonathan plowman, junior Did not drive a taxi. He was a spy for the americans in the revolutionary war. So vigilance killed leona. What information could leona have That vigilance wanted? Ms. Wainwright worked for the government, And vigilance has sworn to end The government's abuse of privacy. I'm afraid this is about the machine. Hey, I just got to the crime scene, And I'm not the only one. Feds decided to drop by too. I'm sure you'll charm them, lionel. I already tried. These suits aren't letting me Within a mile of their investigation. Augusta king, federal bureau of investigation. Give me a break. Lionel, you don't want to be uncooperative With a federal agent. You're involved? I don't want nothin' to do with this. Too late. One of leona wainwright's many responsibilities In the office of personnel management Was security clearances. Security clearances? What for? She hasn't told me yet. Either way, you need to be careful. Yeah, no problem. I'm gettin' the hell outta here. SenatorIt's so good to see you. The secdef wasn't expecting you-- I'm not here to see him. Senator garrison. I don't expect you're here To discuss the d.O.D.'s budget. Tea? I'm assuming you've heard about the woman Who died a very theatrical death in new york. Privacy terrorists. They call themselves "vigilance." They do like to make a statement. Do they have our names? Has the program been compromised? It's possible, but I won't know for sure Until we get access to leona wainwright's office. If anyone finds out about the system They won't. How can you be so sure? You lost the thing months ago. Need I remind you Of the number of terrorist acts That northern lights has prevented? I think we both know That you and your fellow congressmen Would all be giving guest lectures At second-tier universities If another attack happened on our soil. So why don't you Do everybody a favor And just leave the heavy lifting to me, Like you always do? By heavy lifting, you mean sending your goons And their black bags into that woman's office? Do you want me to answer that? The feds are already involved, Which means we need to go through official channels. If this comes back on us, Prison will be the least of our worries. Sending us on a weekend getaway? We have a new number. Matthew reed, criminal prosecutor In the manhattan district attorney's office. How's a criminal prosecutor connected to vigilance? He's not, as far as I can tell. So why are we going to westchester? Because mr. Reed will be spending the weekend there, As will you and ms. Shaw. Your covers. Ms. Shaw will be betty harris of queens, And you, mr. Reese, Will be frank mercer of kenosha, wisconsin. Shouldn't we be looking into what information Leona gave to vigilance? You can leave that to me. I'll be traveling to d.C. And we're not invited? It's important that we not let Mr. Reed out of our sight. We can't risk losing another number. Detective fusco has offered to accompany me. This trip to westchester, Is this some kind of punishment? Got the car packed. Ac/dc or the dixie chicks? I believe I'm the one being punished. What's a manhattan prosecutor Doing at a westchester high school? Maybe he's here on a case. Or not. Welcome. Welcome. Let's see here. Oh, okay. Frank. And Betty? So glad you made it. Isn't this weekend gonna be so much fun? Our new number is checking in. I can't believe finch and fusco Get to track vigilance while we're stuck In suburban-high-school hell. What's the matter, shaw? Weren't too popular in high school? You know, we have more important things to do Than to baby-sit some loser Who just wants to relive his glory days. Hi, matthew. Oh, hey. It's great to see you. You too. Shaw, you okay? You look strange. I'm fine. Just gonna bluejack this guy. Betty? I'm surprised you made it. Who'd want to miss all this? Yeah, well, no one who looks as good as you. Oh. Well, I'll see you tonight. Looks like you caught our new number's eye. You're reading into it. Your itineraries. So there's drinks at the bowling alley tonight, And, of course, the big shindig tomorrow. I hope you brought your dancing shoes. You do still swing dance, don't you? I don't like to show off. And, of course, doug will be catering. Doug hemmill. A little geeky. Voted best listener. Right, doug, with the catering company. Doug's dog show. It's a little gourmet hot dog joint. If you'll excuse me. Well, you actually kinda looked like frank. Let's see how harold did with me. Maybe finch made a clerical error. Betty harris? I actually look like this to you, harold? Well, not to me. I implemented a facial-symmetry algorithm To find the closest match for both you and mr. Reese. If you take away the spectacles and the braces, Tame the permanent wave a bit, I do believe that you and betty harris Look a great deal-- Harold, stop, right now. Look, ms. Harris despised high school. She keeps a blog enumerating the reasons That she wouldn't be caught dead at her 20-year reunion, So it's a fair assumption that she would not show. I'm a professional blogger? Oh, no, the blog is just a side project. You're a dental hygienist. Finch, did you know I'm a great swing dancer? And you're the mattress king of kenosha, wisconsin. I sent the real frank on an all-expenses-paid vacation To aruba, so the two of you Should be all set. No sign of matthew reed. Just bulky sweaters and beer guts. She looks friendly. Let's ask her. Excuse me. Have you seen mat-- Was it something I said? You got the whole weekend to find out. Betty harris. I'm surprised I even recognized you. Me too. Jack. Jack tanner. You probably don't recognize me in this uniform. They even gave me a gun. You wanna see? Maybe later. Some people are gun-shy. Frank, you're holdin' up pretty good. Expected your divorces to take a toll. We should really say hi to matthew reed. Yeah. How's he been? Have you seen him? Truthfully? No one expected him to show. He hasn't been back since graduation day. Can't blame him, considering the circumstances. You know, the thing? The thing with the-- Girlfriend. "claire klein." Matthew's girlfriend died senior year. Yeah, they found her body in matthew's car. Remember? People said he had Something to do with her death. Excuse me, I'm gonna go say hi to doug. No, no, no, you see, with yellow mustard, All you're tasting is vinegar. But with dijon, there's, like, hints of burgundy. So it's the third time I've been caught with the stuff. There's our lawyer now. I had a doctor's note for, like, glaucoma or something. This guy does the best medical marijuana defense In manhattan. Okay. Someone likes matthew. Like that guy's a great judge of character. Frank and beans! Case in point. Buddy! You haven't changed. It's like going back in a time machine. And you look exactly the same As the day we met. Wanna get lit? Maybe after dinner. Prosecutor's on the move.  I'll be with you, girl You should've stayed home.  like being low  hey, hey, hey, like being stoned   I'll be with you, girl Well, matthew's got at least one enemy.  hey, hey, hey, like being stoned  And frank's got two. Detective fusco, nypd. Gonna need to take a look at leona wainwright's office With my forensic photographer. Oh, are you with the other men? Detective. Nice to see you again. Yeah, we're gonna need to get a look at leona's office. Help yourself. It's all yours. Any idea why the feds are all over this case? I imagine it has something to do With the information ms. Groves gave you. What, that leona managed security clearances? Exactly. Ms. Wainwright would have the name Of every government official, From accountants to senators, who could access The confidential information in her department. The physical copies would've been in her office safe. Which the feds just confiscated. But the electronic copies would be located On the opm's secure network. So you'll do some loud typing while you hack the network? I'm afraid it's going to require A bit more finesse, And I'll need somewhere to sit. So this just became an overnight? The department budget's $85 a night for lodging. But I got a place--it usually rents by the hour, But the manager gives me a deal. You know, I'd prefer accommodations That don't charge by the hour. Perhaps you would allow me to bolster your per diem. Please. All right. Got matthew in sight. Did you see that thing between doug and matthew earlier? Doug's still pissed about claire. Matthew's girlfriend? Matthew was her man, but doug was her ducky. Her sidekick. Her best platonic friend. But he never had a chance with claire. Matthew was never the same afterwards. He changed because of how she died? Don't believe those rumors, man. There was no foul play. Matthew didn't kill claire. She overdosed, plain and simple. Excuse me. "phil." Been pretty baked for 20 years. But who the hell are you? No worries. I forget who I am myself. Lionel, gonna need you to pull A copy of a 1994 police report from westchester. Let me guess, you're gonna-- Wow. Got the scoop on why all these women Are so fond of you, frank. You gave the brunette a promise ring, Then slept with her best friend the redhead Before having a fling with the blonde Well, that's not too bad. Whose mother you seduced. Oh  you should learn how to say no   might last a day, yeah - What is it? Looks like someone still believes matthew killed claire. A night to remember Just turned into a night for revenge. Can't believe I lost my car keys. Thanks for the ride. Didn't see anyone else offer. I'm not surprised. It seems like doug doesn't want you here. Not the only one. Do you wanna talk about it? No, I don't dwell on the past, so This is me. What a coincidence. I'm right next door. Oh, yeah. That is a coincidence. Yeah. Lucky one. All right, good night, betty. Good night. Hey, room's occupied. This is an emergency evacuation. What? Why? Bed bugs. You're now in room 304. Get your own room. No vacancy. Something about a bed bug scare. Did you forget your robe, shaw? Forward operating bases don't have the luxury Of single-sex showers. You got a problem with me, You can bed down with the bed bugs. I've got ears on doug. You keep an eye on him till he left the party? He went straight home. One bed. Floor's better anyway. Agreed. Matthew next door? Was just about to have eyes on him. Thought I'd unpack first. Good idea. Fusco came through with the police report. Claire klein's death was ruled An accidental overdose from hydrocodone. Doug saw matthew leave with claire that night, But matthew told police they got into a fight after prom. She got upset, took his car, And matthew claims he never saw her again after that. But doug doesn't believe his story. Well, according to matthew, doug's not the only one. So who else is out for revenge? I haven't felt this rested in a long time. I should hope so, detective. It's past 1:00 in the afternoon. What's all this? I thought you were gonna hack into opm's secure network. I did. Any and all information relating to ms. Wainwright's Role as security clearance manager has been wiped clean. By the feds? Doubtful. Most likely by high-ranking government officials. Portable package x-ray? What are you, gonna inspect some pipe bombs? Most modern safes come equipped with a lead shield. However, the government has been remiss In updating their equipment. By placing this device on the safe's door, I can see the safe's internal mechanisms While I turn the dial. Wait, now you wanna crack the safe? Well, not just the safe, detective. First, we have to break into the fbi's evidence lockup. Then we crack the safe. 'cause nothing's ever easy with you, finch. So When do we get started? There's a reason I never went to a reunion. This. Got eyes on our hot dog connoisseur. It's organic mustard seed, Imported from exotic places like--like canada. I'll make sure doug steers clear of matthew. You find our favorite prosecutor. Betty harris? I am putting you under arrest For stealing my heart. Hey, tanner. You're on your own. Someone has to stop me from murdering him. Hmm. Wanna dance? Oh, I thought you'd never ask. Watch out, hope the chaperones don't catch us. Oh, well, maybe we'll get detention again.  I wanna hold  the hand inside you If I didn't know better, I'd say You're enjoying yourself, shaw. It's nice to have a partner Who's willing to let you lead. Mm. What's your secret, betty? You know how many hours of testimony I've heard? I can always tell when somebody's Not telling the truth. You look ten years younger than the rest of us. How do you handle stress? Every once in a while, I shoot someone. Well, sounds like you need a good lawyer. Well, then again, I'm sure you're You can talk your way out of almost anything. You know, that's funny. The betty harris I remember, She was A shy introvert. She couldn't even carry a conversation. You're not betty. So who are you? I may be the one person here Who thinks you're innocent.  with what's not there Everyone knows I killed claire. What makes you so different? I've spent a lot of time with killers. I think you cared for claire, But I also think that you're hiding something. So why don't you just tell me the truth So I don't have to beat it out of you?  strange you never knew  fade into you "claire"? What kind of psycho would do this? Someone's trying to drive matthew to the brink. You got eyes on doug? You think he planted the dummy? He hasn't moved an inch all night. Toke. You seen anyone acting weird? Are you kidding? Everyone's exactly the same. Only fatter. Present company excluded. And phil, that dude grew a foot And put on He was smaller? He played tiny tim in the school play. Reese. You spot a threat? Not sure, but it sounds like our friend phil Might be an impostor. Isn't anyone at this reunion who they say they are? They said you were fast. Who's they? Guess they were wrong. Dudes, you're both like scary ninjas. Drop the cleaver or I break his neck. How's that for fast? Who sent you? Why are you here? What happened to phil? This was a domestic terrorist Who ingested cyanide to avoid giving me Information about his underground operation. Phil became a terrorist? Shaw. Phil wasn't class of '94. He's vigilance. What does vigilance want with matthew? Vigilance isn't here for matthew. They're here for us. Need help with the body? Phil's on ice. Unfortunately, the tater tots are not. How the hell did vigilance find us in the first place? Your guess is as good as mine. Phil was here to see how we work, Until we forced his hand. Well, there could be more. A lot more. Got another problem. Matthew's disappeared. We need to get to the bottom of claire's death Before this reunion becomes a deep-seated revenge tour. That is one sick joke. Reese, someone's tampered with the parting gifts. Hydrocodone. Same drug claire overdosed on. Claire just reached out and touched doug from the grave. I think we may have gotten this wrong. Matthew's not the one being terrorized. Doug is. How fast can you get to the chem lab? "I can't go on with my life After what I did to claire." You wrote this? My suicide note? The photos at the bowling alley. Claire's dummy, the pills, why? Isn't it obvious? You're gonna kill me. Well, why not? You killed claire. Here, have a seat. Sit down. Why would I hurt claire? She was my best friend. I was always there for her whenever you made her cry. You were always there 'cause you were trying To get in her pants, and prom night was no exception, Doug, 'cause she ran straight to you after we fought. I never saw her again After she left the dance with you. We left 'cause she was upset. She thought I was flirting with linda holmes. No, she thought you were flirting with barbara foster. Yeah, you're right. But how would you know what we fought about? Unless she told you Because she came crying to you later that night? I-no, matthew, I can explain. Why you let claire die? Or why you let everyone think I killed her? I didn't mean to hurt claire. I thought maybe she'd like me more if she was-- Unconscious? Relaxed. Exactly how much hydrocodone did you slip Into her drink, doug? You're a prosecutor. Aren't you supposed to be taking me to court? I'm afraid the court won't look favorably On a gunpoint confession. This isn't justice. For two decades, I believed I pushed claire over the edge, That she od'd because of me, Until I got this reunion invitation And I started thinking like a prosecutor Instead of a boyfriend. You want justice? I served a guilty sentence the last 20 years. Shooting you and letting you rot for the next 20, I mean, that sounds like justice to me, doug. Can't let you do that. As much as doug here deserves it. I knew you weren't betty. I'll stop playing betty if you stop playing a killer. Get down. Get down! Who the hell are they? Domestic terrorists Sent to assassinate me and frank. Sorry to ruin your diabolical high school grudge-fest, But chances are none of us Are gonna make it outta here alive. What is going on? I'm so confused. Stay down and shut up. Remind me never to make you angry. Likewise. Torturing doug so he can confess, Then making his death look like a suicide? That's plain artistry. But, uh, killing's not the answer. Killing's not the answer? That's the best you can do? I don't know. I've killed lots of people. But my friends keep telling me it's wrong. But, look, just because I can live with myself afterwards Doesn't mean you can. Give me your gun. You're right, you know. I couldn't kill doug. I couldn't pull the trigger. I'm not a killer. The gun, the gun! Well, lucky for you, I am. Hey! Ho! Sorry to bother you, shaw. I'm a little busy here, root. I'm aware of your situation. That's why I called-- To apologize. Apologize for what? Vigilance keeps changing the way they communicate. I had to leak some sensitive information In order to find their latest method, Which happens to be coded radio messages. What kind of sensitive information? In my defense, I knew You and the big lug could handle yourselves. You leaked our location to vigilance? I just intercepted another coded message. Harold's about to be in trouble. Gotta go. How you doin'? Detective fusco, nypd. Need to pick up some evidence from the wainwright homicide. What's the case number? Give me a minute. Good luck cracking that safe. Try not to give yourself cancer With your little x-ray machine. Sir, you're not authorized to receive this evidence. Oh, come on, let me get a peek at it, will you? My boss is up my prostate on this one. I don't make the rules. Yeah, but you can bend them. I can't get a clean shot, shaw. I can't get a shot at all. I'm out of ammo. Gotta smoke 'em out. Mix these. Here, hold your breath. And try not to shake it. I got one left. Okay. Make it count. Always hated chemistry. Where's your partner? He went to take a leak. Guy's got the bladder of a two-year-old. He'll be right back. I'm moving as fast as I can, detective. What's this? What the hell? You know, I've been studying You and your associates for some time. That's two ex-operatives, An nypd detective. Sorry, partner. I had to surrender. They were gonna kill the guard. If you harm detective fusco Please. We both know you're not a man of violence. You help people, People who are about to be in a lot of trouble-- Kruger, sloan, Claypool, wainwright. You knew something bad was about To happen to them before it even happened. Now, the fact that that's possible Proves something I've speculated: That the government Has a secret surveillance system That spies on us every hour of every day. I'm not part of the government. But you are protecting the system. And I think whatever was in that safe Is gonna give me more information About the secret system. The documents, please. Mr. Collier, You may find this hard to believe, But I sympathize with your cause. Just not your methods. If you jeopardize this system, You'll be placing all of us at risk. At risk? We're already at war A 24-hour surveillance state With drone assassinations, renditions, cyber-warfare. It's turnkey tyranny, and we're being kept in the dark, Which is ironic, since the system Is called "northern lights." What do you say you and I continue This ethical debate some place a little more private? I'm afraid I won't be joining you. And why's that? Aah! Sorry I'm late, harry. Special agent augusta king. Assailant escaped out the back. That is one scary chick. Good news, harold. Shaw and reese survived. You should talk to them. Finch. Everything okay? Depends on your definition of "okay," ms. Shaw. I suppose detective fusco and I Will live to fight again. How was the reunion? Ended with a bang. Comin' through. No, I wasn't trying to kill claire, I swear. Why did everybody have to go and change? What? No good-bye? Good-byes are for suckers. Well, I-I gotta make a statement downtown. Might spend a year or 20 in jail. Lucky for you, you know a good lawyer. Well, maybe we could get together after. I don't do relationships. Who said anything about a relationship? Collier's disappeared. Agents haven't been able to locate him, Nor has she. So what was in the safe? A black budget report. Unfortunately, it's in collier's hands now. I'm afraid that's not exactly accurate, harold. Collier just sent out another coded message. "disseminate." A shocking revelation today as an anonymous source Released a classified government report. The report revealed black budget items Connected to an invasive surveillance system. High-level government officials, Including senator ross garrison, were named in the report. Senator! Senator! Does this massive surveillance system exist, senator? It does not. But what about the budget leaked to the press today? What is northern lights? I have no knowledge of a project by that name. So--so--so you're saying the government Is not spying on the american people? It is not. We have a problem. My goons and their black bags Could've quashed this problem long before it went public. I don't have time for finger-pointing. The public is an ass hair away From learning their government is trolling Through every inch of their private lives. Terminate the program. I would sooner have you terminated Than leave this country unprotected. The country will be protected, Just not by your machine. And right now, You should be asking who's going to protect you. Deactivate the program. We're no longer operational. Shut it down. Didn't wanna hitch a ride with lionel? I'm afraid if vigilance is operating in d.C., Then so am I. Is there a problem, ms. Groves? Gotta go, harry. My dance card just got full.
You are being watched. The government has a secret system-- A machine that spies on you every hour of every day. I designed the machine to detect acts of terror, But it sees everything Violent crimes involving ordinary people. The government considers these people irrelevant. We don't. Hunted by the authorities, we work in secret. You will never find us. But victim or perpetrator, If your number's up, we'll find you. The leaked black budget report reveals several classified Military intelligence programs, With code names like chalk eagle And tractor rose. A program designated northern lights has Northern lights has a budget far outstripping Any other program. Classified as "operation support For counterterrorism activities," The details are scarce.  Some have speculated that it may be related To the surveillance of american citizens. If so, what does that mean for our privacy? Media got a hold of the program name, Which means your old boss control just lost it. Bitch tried to kill me. Nice to see her head on the chopping block for change. Anyone connected to the machine will be burying evidence Could put the program in jeopardy. Government can't put the machine back in the box. We're still getting our numbers, So the lights are on. Let's go. Morning. You guys have the pancakes? Try the banana chocolate chip--amazing. What? No small talk? All right, fine by me. You have the product? What's it look like? You got the money? We have a deal? You got it, man. That fast, huh? Couldn't even wait to get back to the hotel to count it? See, ray, your partner's already picked out a house in hawaii. So as soon as you turn your back, He's gonna put two in your head And keep all the money for himself. But guess what, julio. Ray here put a down payment on a yacht, Told your girl he'd show her the world. But a million? Both of you would take out your partner for that. Oh, you little son of a Sorry, guys. Deal's off. Sweet dreams, boys. Fusco can clean this up. 'em from killing each other. See? Business as usual. Even if the government's program's on ice, The machine is still spitting out numbers. You know finch. Even without northern lights, his machine will find a way To maintain national security. Really? Well, then who's handling the relevant threats? Root. Hey, kids. You miss me between drug deals? Yeah. I miss you like I miss an intestinal parasite. I love your similes. Hop on, shaw. We've got a relevant number in alaska. We're gonna steal a jet. Does sound kind of fun. Send me a postcard. Turn that frown upside down, lurch. You're going on vacation too. Harold's about to call from d.C. He needs your help. Mr. Reese, I'm afraid our services are required  In the nation's capital. I heard. On my way. Finch? This'll work. Oh, good, you're here. Sorry, got tied up at the library. I'm happy to see that you've come prepared for a long haul. Dare I hope that you've packed something other than weaponry? There's some trip wire to booby-trap the room door. And a toothbrush. Oral hygiene is something, I suppose. You got a number here in d.C.? It would seem so. My investigation into vigilance's activities Will have to wait. Well, root is getting the relevant numbers now. Shaw is with her. We're entering uncharted territory, Tasked with both relevant and irrelevant numbers. Already stretched pretty thin, finch. And at the worst possible time. Just when decima is determined to make samaritan operational. Maybe the timing's not a coincidence. I fear that it may be connected. These are strange times, And the threat of samaritan should not be underestimated. How do you know it's not already up and running? Because we'd be dead, mr. Reese. The machine is a shield. It protects lives. I designed it with safeguards to prevent it being abused As an agent of destruction. Samaritan is an open system, a sword. If it gains access to the government's feeds, There will be no checks on its power. There will be no limits to the knowledge possessed By the person controlling it. Decima would definitely use it to hunt down its enemies. And as confidants of the machine, You and I would be at the top of the list. So maybe the machine is trying to protect us. No, I built it to protect everyone, One number at a time. Oh, my. What? That's roger mccourt. Our new number is a United States congressman? From illinois. Six terms in congress. Current ranking minority member  Of the pivotal house rules committee. The rules committee controls the flow of legislation-- Spurring it forward or stopping it altogether. If he has that much power, He'll have plenty of enemies. Given their activities in washington recently, Vigilance would have to be a suspect.  However, mccourt's been an outspoken opponent Of government surveillance. Could decima want him dead? Perhaps. But killing a congressman would seem too flashy for them. Nobody likes the government these days. Any disgruntled citizen could be the assassin. We have to get to the capitol. You call this music? Finch? Are you okay? I'm fine. Can we put the screeching cat out of its misery? It's not feline. It's verdi. There's a performance of il trovatore  At the kennedy center that I'd like to catch. Next time you can be the disc jockey. We'll listen to whatever you like. Well, maybe next time I'll just sing for you. I do a great ring cycle, you know. I think I'll skip your brunnhilde. Suit yourself.  Looks like our congressman is in danger  Of catching lobbyist disease. It's gonna be difficult to get ears on mccourt.  His aide handles all phone activity. Mccourt doesn't want the government eavesdropping on him? Congressmen know better than anyone That their employer could be listening. We'll have to get close to him, Narrow down the list of threats. The capitol police detail won't let anyone near him. Congressmen are eligible for secret service protection In the event of additional risk. No one's made an attempt on his life yet. The congressman doesn't even know the danger he's in. He knows now. Drive, finch. I have to tell you, mr. Reese, I don't approve of this strategy. You're the one who said you couldn't make an alias That would pass secret service muster. I said I didn't have time. I didn't know you were gonna steal the identity Of an actual secret service agent. I'm just borrowing it. Relax. Order some room service. Perhaps I will when you tell me what you've done  With the real agent abbott. He's resting comfortably in a motel room near the airport. Define "comfortably." Gotta go, finch. The rules committee is meeting in ten minutes, You have your journal interview at 11:30, And then lunch at ocean grill With cynthia carol from privacy first To discuss your anti-surveillance initiative. Good morning, leslie. Good morning, congressman. Who's this? This is agent abbott, secret service.  He's been assigned to you. Because of the shooting? Oh, sorry, I was thinking more About the business ahead of me today Rather than behind.  Where you from, abbott? He's from tulsa, oklahoma. Tulsa, sir. Tulsa, oklahoma. Good people, salt of the earth. And for tonight, tickets to the verdi opera  At the kennedy center. Do I have to go to this? This sounds like screeching cats. You promised your wife. I could shoot you in the leg, sir. Pardon me? Might get you out of the opera. You know, duran here, he always wanted to be secret service. Isn't that right, duran? At one time, sir. Well, if you show abbott some love here, Maybe he'll put in a good word for you. Oh, and we can dispense with the stoplights today, okay? Mccourt! Dunphy. You should've called first. My office is slammed this morning. Is this about the airline contract? They're trying to stick it to us, mac. Yeah. And now I'm hearing you might be taking their side Instead of the union's? Dunphy, dunphy. It must be bruce dunphy, Part of the leadership of the illinois machinists union. I know it's a lousy contract, But I do think that you ought to sign it. Unbelievable. You backstabbing son of a-- Whoa, hold it, hold it. You think you can pull this bait and switch with us, With me, and get away with it? Looks like mccourt might have crossed the wrong union, boss. It's not a good deal, but it does keep the plant open. And it puts you at the front of the line For a bigger government contract That's coming down the pike next year. Another contract? Yeah. So you see, bruce, I am looking out for your guys. But you do have to trust me. I guess I jumped the gun a little bit. Forget it. Hey, is your wife in town with you? Yeah. Here. Go as my guest. It's classical stuff. She'll love it. Really? Oh, thanks, mac. It's my pleasure. Tell your guys not to worry. Remember, I'm your man. Thanks. Leslie, will you call my wife And tell her unfortunately the opera was sold out? It would appear our congressman has quite a knack For getting himself out of unpleasant situations. Yeah, that opera would've been brutal. Hmm. I'm not accustomed to taking meetings On such short notice, But your reputation precedes you. Don't worry, senator. I come with only the best of intentions. So what can I do for you? Actually it's what I can do for you And your northern lights problem. If you're referring to the leaked black budget report, Mine's just one of 100 names found in there. I've already made it clear I have no knowledge of that project. Really? I thought you knew a great deal about it, Especially since the 2008 policy retreat On martha's vineyard When you were tapped to shepherd the program. Surely you didn't think, In a world where you were surveilling everyone, That no one was watching you. So What is it you want? As I told you, To help. The group responsible For leaking your black budget to the press Calls themselves vigilance. Privacy terrorists. This is one of their leaders, Known by his alias as peter collier. Ironic. You risked your career hiding a program Designed to protect the country, Yet it couldn't protect you from this group When you needed it to. And now you've had to shut it down Leaving your country unprotected. A frightening prospect indeed. The country will always be protected. Yes, I'm sure you're weighing alternative approaches, As your president might say. I can save you the time. My company, decima technologies, Is finalizing development of a new surveillance system. All due respect, We've gone down a similar path with mixed results. Northern lights was effective But compromised by the ethics of its creator. It spoke but never listened. What I have not only listens but obeys.  It can find anyone Anywhere, anytime. You merely need to ask. As intriguing as that sounds, There are some members of congress Making too much hay out of this latest scandal To ever green-light another program. Hmm. Share my proposal with your colleagues. If there is interest Dissenting voices will not be a problem. How can you be sure? Because, senator, Obstacles are only obstacles Until you move them out of the way. So how long you been with the congressman? Long enough to know he doesn't need secret service protection. What about the shooting? Just some antigovernment wing nut Looking to make the news cycle. I suppose that's possible. Mr. Reese? That's my supervisor. Guy's always in my ear. What do you got, finch? Nothing of note. Mccourt's list of enemies is practically nonexistent.  He ran a surprisingly clean campaign to get into office, And his current stand against unchecked surveillance Has endeared him to elements of both parties. What about his personal life? No red flags--finances are sound, carries no debt,  And has an impressive stock portfolio. Help you with something, friend? Let go of me. I'm trying to be polite here. It's all right, abbott, I've got this. Have a seat. Thank you, sir. Local homeless guy. I've seen him around. Mccourt knows him? No, but people like him know mccourt. He's got a standing offer to buy a meal For anyone who needs one. It's a practice he started last year  To raise awareness for the homeless problem. One more, congressman. It also helps burnish his public image. Okay. Get him some soup. Finch, take this down. Echo five dash nine mike india six. A license plate? See if you can trace it. Abbott, chop-chop! What was that? Forget it. Starting to think I should've gone with root. Thanks for being my travel buddy on these errands. Sure. It's not every day you get to beat up a militia group In anchorage, then hop a plane to miami. So is this what you're Doing from now on, you're chasing down bad guys? I doubt it. There's still too much work to be done. What kind of work? Preparation. I understand. We're leaving now. Time to go. Where to? St. Louis. Oh, great. I know a steak joint that serves a filet that's better than sex. Yummy as that sounds, you won't be joining me. She needs you somewhere else. W-where? You should go back to dealing coke, sonny. It's a lot safer than moving explosives. You there, finch? Always, mr. Reese. Sounds rather quiet there. I think the only thing mccourt is in danger of Is working too late. I fear you may need to remain on his security detail Longer than anticipated. Shouldn't we check in on the real agent abbott? Yeah, I guess someone should turn him over. I beg your pardon? What's going on? Something's wrong, finch. Sorry. What the hell, abbott? You never heard of knocking? I'm sorry. I thought I heard a Never mind. Should I call it in? Finch, mccourt and his aide have been working On more than just policy positions. Might wanna consider his wife as a possible threat. Actually, her emails show that she's been aware of his affairs  For quite some time. Seems they have more of an arrangement than a marriage. Mr. Reese, I found something. What is it? With fusco's aid, I was able to trace the license plate  From the suv outside the restaurant  Back to a rental car company. It seems the vehicle was rented to a shell corporation  Set up by another company Decima technologies. Decima. You were right, finch. It's all connected. Mccourt must be a threat to samaritan. Which would explain why they're here. Duran. There's something you should know, officer. He's not secret service. What? Who's this? Here's the real agent abbott. Don't do it. Abbott, what are you doing? Stay put. Mr. Reese, what's happening? Change of plans. I've got mccourt. Got him? You've kidnapped a United States congressman? Like you said, finch, these are strange times. Hello, harold. Mr. Reese, I have to question the wisdom Of abducting an elected official. Well, decima blew my cover and started shooting. The capitol police and secret service Are scouring the city for you now, Plus the fbi and about a dozen other three-letter agencies. Let's see how they're doing. Traveling west on independence avenue.  Congressman was abducted in a black sport utility vehicle,  Illinois license plate 20 Mm-hmm. That's us. Congressional tags. So we need to dump the car and hole up somewhere. Very well. Turn left up here. I know a place. American beef consultants, finch? We need a hiding place, not a burger. Last month I bought the beef industry's lobbying arm. And don't knock the hamburgers. They're superb. Doesn't look like much of a safe house. That's the idea-- I cleared out this floor And added a couple of cutting-edge amenities--  Fully stocked kitchen, bulletproof glass. Okay, mac. You gonna scream? John. Bedside manner. Congressman, strange as it may seem, We wish you no harm, we're here to help. But we do need to ask you a few questions, And we would prefer that you did not yell for assistance. Who are you? Security advisors Of a sort. Well, yeah, I can pay the ransom. I can get however much money you need. Someone's trying to kill you. Yeah, you. What? No. We're protection. Protection? You posed as, uh, secret service, You knock out my security detail, And then you abduct me at gunpoint. Technically I also shot at you a couple days ago. Somebody help me, please! That's enough! We don't have time for this.  If you wanna survive, you're gonna have to help us. Now, about that hit squad that my colleague rescued you from Hit squad? That wasn't a hit squad. That was the fbi trying to save me from you. I know it may have appeared that way, But I assure you that was not the case. What do you know about company called decima? Never heard of it. Why? They sent the team that tried to kill you. Do you know why they would consider you an enemy? Me, an enemy? I'm not an enemy. People love me. I mean, I might piss a few people off along the way, But I always get 'em whatever it is they need. I'm a deal maker. So what is it with you guys? What do you want, money? You want a personal telephone call from the president? 'cause I can get it. Just please, come on. Let me go. Then, whatever you need, I'm your man. Finch, get down! You guys all right? Yes, we're fine. Why is everybody shooting at everybody? I mean, if you're shooting at federal agents Feds don't walk in scattering lead. Decima found us. How? Mccourt has no phone to follow. It's a tracker. Do you know who gave you this? No idea. It was given to me at a fund-raiser a week ago. More operatives will be arriving soon. We need to go. We should leave the beltway. We'll need a new car. Or an old one-- easier to hotwire. Take mccourt. This guy again. He's like a cockroach. Sounds like our last escape route Is about to disappear. I'm more comfortable shooting this guy than the cops. You guys going my way? Congressman was abducted by a white male,  6'3", dark hair, in suit.  Be advised, suspect is armed and extremely dangerous. Nice car, shaw. So how'd you know we'd be there? I didn't Until five minutes ago. I got a call from root. So you're the one we're saving? Yeah. Who are you? Right now I'm the getaway driver. Boy, this just gets worse. Cheer up, mac. You could be in the trunk with the guy who wants to kill you. We can't go back. It's too dangerous. I could try blasting through the roadblock. The term "blasting" Does not inspire great confidence, ms. Shaw. Time to get some fresh air. I'll get the guy in the trunk.  Let's go. Time to stretch your legs. All clear. Newspapers in the driveway, mail piled up. Must be on vacation. Let's hope they decide to stay another night. What now? Some answers. Look, I don't know how many times I have to tell you. I haven't done anything to make anybody wanna kill me. Well, until we determine the reason That decima keeps making attempts on your life, You'll have to stay with us. You have our decima friend's phone? I pulled out the sim card. If you really wanna protect me, Why don't you just take me to the cops? Law enforcement is no deterrent To the people coming after you, congressman. This is insane. You've obviously done something to attract their attention. Like what? Decima is a private intelligence company Developing a large-scale surveillance program-- The type of program that you've been vocally against. Along with half the congress. So? But your position on the rules committee Gives you the power to alter or halt legislation. Have you sidelined anything that would affect decima's plans? No. I don't know anything about that company Or why they would wanna kill me. This is all just a huge mistake. We're not getting anywhere here. Maybe shaw's having some luck. You can talk or bleed out. You help us, we'll help you. Suit yourself, tough guy. Hope it's worth dying for. That may not be necessary. I was able to get into his phone through a key vulnerability In the sms encryption. I think we may have misread this situation. "protect"? Seems we're not the only ones concerned With the congressman's safety. So who are you supposed to be protecting mccourt from? I wasn't given that information. But in the week we've been watching him, The only ones who have taken a shot at him are you. You think maybe I could get a coffee? Or some water would be fine. Mr. Mccourt, you're sure you have no knowledge of decima? I already answered that. Why do you keep beating that drum? Because they're protecting you. Protecting me? A minute ago you said they were trying to kill me. I did. Something doesn't add up. Actually I think it might. I looked into your finances earlier today, congressman. You did what? I noticed your stock portfolio, Up 20% over last year. What are you getting at? Your trading activities. Your portfolio is up 20% due to trades You've made in the last two weeks. Trades that have increased in value by over 600%. So? So Either you're the smartest investor in washington, Or you're getting some very good information. Inside information. I don't like what you're implying. It's more than an implication, congressman, And it'll become a call to an s.E.C. Investigator I know Unless you're more truthful with us. Okay. I know decima technologies. But they're not trying to kill me. We have an understanding. What kind of an understanding? They were looking for a little legislative support For their new surveillance program. Support? You've been leading the charge against government surveillance.  Course I have. 'cause I realized that the government Can't keep a secret. You look at, uh, prism and this northern lights mess. What do you know about decima's program? Not much really.  Just that it's an alternative to a government-run system. Which, at this point, should make everybody happy. And in return for your support, You're getting insider stock tips. You're a couple of smart guys, you know? Surely you understand That everything that happens in washington is a deal. And you're a deal maker. In case you didn't know, The business of governments is business. They're moving grid to grid through the neighborhood. We need to make a move. Greer is positioning samaritan to replace the machine. Mccourt is helping decima. We've been looking at him as a victim, But he's really a perpetrator. I'm not so sure. His involvement is tangential at best, And he doesn't know greer's intentions. But if he's not a victim or a perp, Then why did the machine give us his number? What is it we're supposed to be stopping? I'm not sure we're supposed to be stopping anything. Finch, you said mccourt could speed up or halt legislation. Yes, he's in a unique position to remove Any legislative roadblock to samaritan. So without mccourt, Samaritan doesn't get past congress. And greer wouldn't get access to the nsa's surveillance feeds. Then that's why we got his number. He is the victim. His life is in danger. But from who? Us. I think the machine wants us to kill mccourt. John, think about what you're saying. I have. Just because decima is not The threat to mccourt doesn't mean that we must be. The machine is designed to save lives, not take them. But could it? Could the machine ever tell us to kill someone? Is it possible? It's conceivable. Well, how bad would the situation have to be? Bad. It would have to see that an individual's actions Could directly result in the loss of others' lives. How many lives? A dozen, a hundred? How many? A lot. I'm not sure. I never dreamt it would come to this. Well, it has. Your machine-- it sees something coming-- Something bad-- and it wants us to stop it. I don't know. You don't know that. Look, I've never entirely trusted your machine, But you built it, and I trust you. You're the one who said we can't underestimate The threat of samaritan. Mr. Mccourt, You have to call off your deal with decima. Their surveillance program cannot be approved. What--what are you, one of those privacy nut jobs? Is that what this is about? With access to the government's surveillance feeds, Decima will be able to acquire any information, Any secret it desires, And sell it to the highest bidder. And that would be the United States government. Perhaps, for now. But unbridled access will create Unlimited opportunities for abuse. People will be ruined, lives will be lost. The results will be nothing short of catastrophic. These programs are always gonna be controversial But also inevitable. People get up in arms whenever they go public, But eventually the noise dies down, Because the simple truth is that people wanna be protected. They just don't wanna know how. Oh, maybe I haven't offered you the right incentive. So how much? Excuse me? To withdraw your support for decima's program, how much? Hey, you know, I did this to keep the country safe. And yeah, maybe I got a little something for myself During the process. All that makes me is good at what I do. I'm not calling off the deal. Looks like we've got company-- s.W.A.T., feds, the works. Mr. Reese, it was never my intention For people to be killed because of the machine. What do you think happened when it gave the government A terrorist number? What do you think we used to do for a living? That man is not a terrorist. He's just an opportunistic and corrupt pawn. That doesn't make the threat any less real. We are not assassins. We protect people. Isn't that what we're doing, Sacrificing the life of one to save the lives of many? Shaw, help me out here. Six months ago, I would've already put a bullet In that guy's head. But ever since hanging around you guys, I've kind of gotten used to saving people. But we've only been able to do that by trusting the machine. And if it's saying that this guy's gotta go, Well, I think we should still trust it. John, I urge you to consider the consequences of this action. There are consequences to not acting. Like with simmons and joss. Don't do this. If we let him walk out that door, decima wins. Samaritan will go live. It's a possibility but not a certainty. There may be another way. We've never been here. But are you really willing to take that risk? Harold? Since we started this, things have changed. We've changed. But the mission, our purpose, has always been constant-- To save lives. If that's changed somehow, if we're in a place now Where the machine is asking us to commit murder That's a place I can't go. I'm afraid this is where I get off. John.   pick it up, pick it all up     and start again     you've got a second chance     you could go home     escape it all     it's just irrelevant     you've got a warm heart     you've got a beautiful brain     but it's disintegrating     it's just medicine     it's just medicine     you could still be what you want to     what you said you were when I met you   You've had an opportunity to consider my proposal. Will you help us? My colleagues and I would like to, But unfortunately now is not the time. Perhaps a demonstration of my system's capabilities Will convince you that your country cannot afford to wait. Test in a limited area, say New york city. 24 hours, quick, clean. Then we shut it down. No guns, no police, just information.  What kind of information? If the nsa provides us With new york city's surveillance feeds, We will find you a terrorist.  You could find me a thousand terrorists,  But like I said,  We'll never get this through congress. And as I told you, dissenting voices would not be a problem.   what you said you were     when you met me     you could still be what you want to     what you said you were     when I met you     when you met me     when I met you     you   It's time to remove those obstacles. Answer your phone, senator. How you doing, garrison? This is roger mccourt. I understand you'll be preparing some legislation. Is that right? If you can handle the senate,  I can ensure that the house rules  Facilitate a quiet passage. You can do all that? Absolutely, senator. Okay. Let's Do it. Excellent. Now if there's anything else you need, just ask. I'm your man.   from all the medicine     medicine     you could still be what you want to be     what you said you were     when you met me     you could still be what you want to   Virgil, Are we operational? You're just in time for the ribbon cutting. Feeds are coming online now. Commencing beta test.   when I met you   Okay, we have 24 hours. Splendid. Find me harold finch.
Hello. Hello. Grace, there's something you should know about me. There's nothing you can say that will make me run away. Harold! Please, my fiance Do you know where he might-- I'm sorry. This is everybody we pulled out of the water. If we let him walk out that door, Decima wins, samaritan will go live. If we're now in a place Where the machine is asking us to commit murder, That's a place I can't go. I'm afraid this is where I get off. I said open the register now! I want the cash! Who the hell are you? Ordinarily, I'd be the chick Kicking your amateur-hour ass. Really, raul? You covered your face, But no gloves? Prints on the door. The cops will have you in an hour. Not smart with charisse and a two-year-old at home. But today Is your lucky day. Just drop the gun Take the diapers and get the hell outta here. Your kid's better off with a father. You saved our lives. From him? No. No. He wasn't a real threat. But did you notice that your security cameras  Have been off all afternoon?  I wonder why ricky here Begged you to work a shift today. Two words: Inside job. For the ice cream. You didn't need backup after all. But for the record, I'd have just kneecapped that guy. Especially if I was nursing a leg wound. Okay, first, my leg is fine. And second, what's with the tips on field work? Who died and made you finch? AhIt's the role I gotta play Until the real one comes back. And when is that? It's been over a week. NoCall, no--no text. Not even a smoke signal. Finch will reach out to us when he's good and ready. Until then-- Nice to see you, too, john. Where the hell did you come from? El paso, most recently. The thing with the narco-trafficker. Very relevant, but not the point. Take a peek around that corner, you two. Ambush. Who are the party crashers? Decima trigger teams Waiting for you With no less than six submachine guns And one honest-to-goodness russian rpg-7. We need to get invisible. Fast. Phones and earpieces. Now. Streets aren't safe. Decima's machine is online. Can see us anywhere and everywhere In the five boroughs of new york city. Samaritan? You confirmed it? Our names are on the list, and greer is keeping score. All systems--cameras, phones, the gps in your car Can track us. So what, samaritan can think for itself now? It can learn? I don't think so. Right now, all it can do is watch us and follow. Just remember--what our machine sees, samaritan sees. Two gods playing with the same deck of cards. Stop. We need to find another way. Mr. Greer, I'd assumed the beta test of your system Would be a little more Professional. The espresso machine is on its way. And I can assure you, senator, Samaritan is running as smooth as a swiss watch. How long will it take? You've had all the city's domain awareness feeds For four hours already. And look at what those four hours Have already produced. All probable terrorists in the city of new york Pinpointed, categorized,  And tracked with an up-to-the-second gps.  I can assure you, senator, That we will have a hard target for you soon. And you'll inform me when you do? You will be the first to know. Fine. Mm. You know we've gotten dozens of results already. Any one of these guys is practically gift-wrapped. And we'll deliver. But not until after we've located harold finch. Where are we on that? Samaritan couldn't find a lead, sir. He may have skipped town. Should we consider turning on its higher, More cognitive functions? This thing has a mind. Why don't we use it? For the simple reason we don't have the hardware. If it can't find this finch, How 'bout the next best thing? If we have it combine Everything it knows about harold finch And ask it to find his closest living connection,  Let's see what it comes up with. Hug the wall. There's a camera up ahead. We're covered on 23rd street By the flushing line elevated tracks. We make it that far, And maybe we don't get shot By the six decima agents waiting a block away. Samaritan 101. Let's go. Missed one. Hold here until the light changes. The camera angle switches with oncoming traffic. Come on! John. When that light switches, we're screwed! We can't worry about irrelevant numbers now. What is it thinking Telling us to lay low Then handing us a new number? There's no time! This is a life. And finch would tell us to save it. So you tell your complicated boss If it wants me to step out of danger, Then I need more than just numbers. I want a name. Fine. She's giving it to me. I'll tell you on-- Oh, no. What? Who is it? Looks like samaritan's found a connection. There. Who is she? Not sure. Could be family, a friend, a coworker. Bring her to me. "Let not your hearts be troubled. "in my father's house are many rooms. "and if I go to prepare a place for you, "I will come again, And where I am, you may be also." Amen. Ordinarily, I'd say a few words about the deceased, but-- Oh, no, that's all right, father. It was lovely. Thank you. The bombing was such a tragedy. So many lives taken at once. I didn't know your fiance, But I pray his soul finds peace. Thank you. I would have thought at least one I beg your pardon? Not a crowd--he didn't really have any family, But a friend or A coworker. Just One other person who knew How truly special harold was And wanted to say good-bye. Ms. Hendricks, you ordered a car? Yes! To jfk? Let me get that. Thank you. International, right? Where you headed? I'm going to a job interview in Italy. I'm not even sure if I want it, But I have to show them my work. If you could be really careful with this-- Those are paintings. Wow, you're an artist, huh? Yeah. My daughter loves to paint. Do you have a website? I'd love to show her your stuff. Aw. That's sweet. Yeah, I think I have a card. Oh, she'll be so excited. Nice of you to do that. Little late for the flu shot. Ms. Hendricks, I'm detective stills.  We met before. Do you remember? Where did you come from? My partner and I need to get you to a safe place. This man works for a very dangerous criminal organization, And others are on their way. So we need to hurry. Emphasis on the hurry. Image captures from down the street  From ms. Hendricks' apartment. Our operative was intercepted Before he could acquire her. I believe you're familiar With the two who came to her rescue. We're currently tracking them across manhattan. Enough of these games. Zachary! Sir. Deploy all operatives into the field. Bring me grace hendricks And eliminate the rest. Copy that. No, no, no. What are you doing? You can't be in here. Yes, we can, lionel. We're police. Detective stills, remember? You're killing me with that. It's not safe for you in here. A good point. Any way to turn those things off? The cameras? Department's got 'em up all over the place now. Lionel, meet grace. She's got some very bad people trying to hurt her.  I don't know what's going on, But these detectives saved my life. Yeah. They're good at that. Now can we find her a place to rest? Yeah, all right, come on. Come here. All units, take positions.  Sir, we have the precinct surrounded.  We're ready to move in. Hold your position. The situation may require a certain amount of Finesse. It's lousy, but it's warm. Thank you. How you holding up? Why would someone want to hurt me? I can't tell you what's going on out there. But in here, you're safe. The other detectives-- stills and his partner-- Are they always like that? I know they come off a little stiff.  But they've saved my life dozens of times. Trust me-- they're the good guys. I'm sorry. Can I help you? Special agent maybank. There's a woman by the name of hendricks here. I need to take her into custody. And you just happen to know she's here. I have a warrant. It's notarized. That's a cute trick, but you ain't getting anywhere. Is there a problem, detective? Lieutenant fusco. Special agent maybank. Oh, of course. We were just about to question your suspect. I had a feeling she was tied to something bigger. Now, if you like, I can bring her to you In the interrogation room. Please. Sure. Right this way. It'll just be a second. Thank you. Hey, good night, sarge. Night. Fusco. Got a late-night collar here. Picked her up with two unregistered weapons. Hate to crash the party, But a mutual friend thought I could help in here. So you got yourself arrested? Wouldn't be the first time. Help me out here? In evidence locker 7-7-9-b, There's a coil of copper wire. In 4-4-3-a, there's a pair of needle-nosed pliers. I need them, a roll of duct tape, And an extension cord. Oh, is that all, cocoa puffs? Tell our men to position themselves  Around the station Where there's no surveillance coverage. Is there a problem, sir? We're not the only ones with eyes and ears everywhere. Hey, hey, hey. Where you going? How is detective stills one of the good guys When he's not even detective stills? Hendricks, grace r. Bfa, rhode island school of design, mfa, yale. You're a smart lady. So listen to what happens when you walk out that door. If you're not shot by one of Three former force recon scout snipers, You'll be grabbed by some lummox named zachary In an suv with bogus ohio plates-- A fate far worse than the lies told To protect you in this room. Believe it or not, She's one of the good guys too. What is going on? I barely believe this is a police station. You're in a situation you can't control That's larger than you can imagine. Sit tight, And we'll keep you alive. Lionel What did you find for me? What's that thing? An induction coil. This is the precinct's telecom box. The wires from all the cameras run through this wall. Each of those wires is protected by a copper sheath Which I'm overloading with 110 volts of electricity. What, are you trying to burn the place down? Just cooking it a little. Very clever. You're gonna want to dispose of that. Especially when your I.T. Guys show up in the morning. Terrific. Anything else, princess? Your phone and an unmarked car. Here. You better not be calling china. Hmm. Just Down the street, actually. All units, there's been an explosion  On 1214 grand street.  An abandoned three-story building.  The explosion occurred on the first floor.  All units in area respond immediately. What do you think? Did we lose 'em? It was always 50/50. Zachary, get ms. Hendricks to safety, And then dispose of the others. I've got her, sir. Never thought I'd love the sight of new jersey. You sure we're safe here? From everything but the coffee. And, yes, we're off the radar As long as we're outside the five boroughs. Samaritan can't see this farYet. We have to go back and find grace. If decima's throwing everything they have at us, Then she's their way to get to finch. Still the faithful watchdog, huh? Even after harold left you. Are you gonna help us or not? I thought you'd never ask. See everything in red? These are dead zones in the city. Spots where our machine can't find a hint  Of audio or visual surveillance. When decima took grace, They disappeared to this spot here. Red hook marine terminal. An entire port blacked out to surveillance. Someone doesn't want the world to see What's going in or coming out. Here's your pancakes. I'm guessing it's our best shot at finding grace. Then let's go take a look.  Stop the clock, sports fans. How do either of you plan on getting us back into the city? There's our ride. Where am I?  Where am I, damn it? I asked you a question. Tell me where I am. Now. Where you are is of very little interest, my dear. Who you are--now, that's a question worth pursuing. What right do you have To abduct me To keep me here? Your questions only delay my own. Please. Now, tell me Grace hendricks Who exactly are you? You can lose the hat. Whole area's a dead zone, meaning "camera free." And since we ditched our phones, I took the liberty of grabbing a few of these On our way out of the 8th. Okay, so how many bad guys are we looking at here? What kind of firepower? I have no idea. As long as we're here, we're flying blind. Finally A chance for some good old-fashioned recon. There's nothing here but employee records. She's gotta be on one of those four container ships at dock. You're sure you saw four ships out there? Yeah. Why? Terminal manifest only lists three. What do you say we take a look behind door number four? You two head below deck, try to find grace. I'll keep watch up here. No sign of grace. Or anyone else. Takes a big crew to run a ship this size. So where is everybody? Discoloration of the lips,  Fingernails.  Signs of respiratory arrest. I'm guessing Botulinum toxin. For a job well done. Decima. But why would they poison the crew? Unless they have something to hide. You guys might wanna come up here. There's something you should see.  Computer servers. I'd say there's about And, yes They're state-of-the-art. With chipsets and acceleration technology Unlike anything I've ever seen.  Three guesses what decima's gonna use them for. But you won't need three. Samaritan? But it's already online. You think it's scary now? Samaritan's a brand-new system, a child learning to crawl. These servers Are for when it can run. Can't question a dead guy. But maybe this can help. You couldn't have aimed Everybody's a critic today. Let's just go find you a computer. Ready when you are. It was decima, all right. Here to take inventory of the cargo. And receiving orders via self-deleting texts. They never make it easy, do they? Can't read the texts, But the machine found where they came from. A building in brooklyn. If decima's camped out there, Then grace probably is too. Let's go. Are you coming? She's telling me to stay put. You guys can handle it from here. I've got work to do. How do you take it? I don't. Well If you get parched Now Let's go over it One more time. The part where I tell you I'm an illustrator Who has no idea what she's doing here Or the part where you don't believe me? Oh, I believe you're an illustrator. And I believe that you were born On the 12th of April, 1969, in columbia, south carolina, To paul and marilyn hendricks Of the pale blue house on forrester lane. Your bedroom was the upper right one  Overlooking the street. Your parents still live there, don't they? Charming couple. Who are you? You've studied history of art. Just think of me as Michelangelo in the sistine chapel Lying on his back Trying to paint a portrait of a rather elusive subject. Michelangelo painted it standing up. Oh? One of those little things you learn in art history. And I can't help you make a picture of god. Perhaps you can. Ever been married? I'm sure that file of yours can tell you the answer's no. Married to your career then? I'm simply trying to get a sense of your life And the people in it. Mom, dad No one else? Nobody. Friends. Mostly artists. Seems a shame Woman of your beauty, intelligence, Obvious talent-- I'd think you'd be quite a catch. I was engaged once, four years ago. But he's dead now. I'm truly sorry. How did it happen? The ferry bombing. His name was harold. How tragic. PleaseTell me about harold. Must be awful losing a loved one To an act of terrorism. I hope his burial provided you With a modicum of closure. It was a memorial, not a burial. His remains were lost at sea. And my closure's none of your business. Can you name any one thing about harold That you know to be absolutely true? I can name dozens. He was kind, intelligent-- Yes, yes, yes. Harold martin, freelance software engineer.  Orphan with a love of art and a heart of gold.  So you said. So he told you. Are you implying that harold lied to me? I'm implying that your harold Lived a remarkably anonymous life Perhaps more than one. What? Are you out of your mind?  I'm simply trying to discern Whether you're lying to me about this man Or just to yourself. I don't know who you are Or how this ends, but We're done here. No more questions. No more questions about me and my life or harold. No need to lose your temper. Here's all you need to know about me, old man. My dad was an alcoholic. Nearly tore the family to pieces. The thing about growing up that way-- You get good at spotting lies. So good that you start expecting them from everyone. So how do I know What harold told me was true? Because when he came along, Against every instinct, I gave him my trust. Somehow I knew He would never break it. And if you doubt that even for a second, You're the one who's lying to himself. You truly loved him, didn't you? I would have done anything to save him. And harold would have done anything for me. Yes. I have no doubt. Answer me one question. Why are you so interested in harold? He's dead. Your tea's gone cold. Feel free to freshen it up. Zachary, I finished our interview with our subject. Have you found her protectors? Yes, sir. Samaritan has located their car.  We're moving in now. Get out of the car! Hands up! Who are you? How did you get this vehicle? Easy, man! I-I just asked for a dollar. They gave me the keys. Sir, we lost them.  They engineered a distraction. Now, why would they create a distraction  That dragged us all the way to one side of the city Unless they were on their way to the other? Our location has been compromised. Disassemble everything. Now! Next time we need to hide from an all-seeing super computer, We're getting separate trunks. My favorite thing about new york cabbies-- They have terrible memories. See? You forgot us already? Yeah, yeah. Decima's holed up in there somewhere, And if we're lucky, so is grace. I'm sick of hiding. Let's make some noise. Somebody call tech support? Got this one, shaw. You find grace? Found an interrogation room set up with tea for two. Still warm. We just missed her. Our friend here is gonna tell us Everything he knows about grace and samaritan. Oh, I sincerely doubt that. BesidesAll you need to know about ms. Hendricks Is that she's with me, And for the moment, quite safe. Let her go. Or geek squad here catches a bullet. Amusing performance. I'm afraid  Virgil's already dead. Aren't you, virgil? At dawn, grace hendricks will be at the jefferson bridge. I'll be very happy to return her to you In exchange for harold finch. What makes you think we'd agree to that? Your agreement is irrelevant. Get the message to mr. Finch.  I expect he'll cooperate. For ms. Hendricks' sake, don't be late. We can't trade harold. We can't even find him. Then we've only got a few hours To come up with a way to save grace. Yep. - Hi, you two. The machine says the security camera Overlooking the entrance to grace's building Just went out.  Thought you should know. Finch. How did you take out the camera? I still have a few tricks left. I'd hoped maybe it wasn't too late, That I could warn her. They want me, don't they? We're not giving you to decima, harold. We just got you back. The three of us will come up with some kind of way. No, any change of plans would put grace at risk, And I can't allow that. I'll trade myself for her. The two of you will stay with me And make sure that decima Holds up their end of the deal. Understood? Whatever you want, finch. We'll be there. Thank you. There's one more thing. I'd like you to avoid violence if at all possible.  But If they harm grace in any way Kill them all. This is the best plan You three could come up with? We had no choice, lionel. Well, I don't like it. We're too exposed. And there are cameras everywhere, Which is why we do nothing. No one fires a shot unless we have to. Don't do this, harold. We'll think of something. We've faced worse. Worse? Have we? I don't think so. From the day the machine went online, Part of me knew That I would never be able to sever myself from it And that anyone I ever cared about  Was in danger.  It was foolish to imagine otherwise. I tried to guard myself, stay hidden, From the government, the authorities, People looking. Here we still are.  This moment was inevitable. This moment was always looking for me. I have to accept it. It's for grace when she's safe. There was no other way. Keep yourself alive, harold. I'll be coming for you. Remember what I said. She's all that matters. Walk a straight line. Don't take off the blindfold until you're all the way there. Thank you. Get her outta here now. Day like today, It's gotta feel good to come home. Hey. You gonna be okay? Honestly, I don't know. Is it gonna be safe here? No. They have what they want for now, But that won't stop them from coming after you again. Which is why you should open this. That job you were looking at in Italy? You've been selected for the position. What? I didn't even go on the interview. I was supposed to leave-- Your flight leaves tonight. The job begins next week. They'll set you up with an apartment, Stipend, all under the name on that passport. Lionel here will get you to the airport safely. It's a good time to start over. Please don't look back. Did you know him? Harold? Is he what this was all about? All I know for sure is You loved him. And he loved you back. Step away from the door! Get on the ground! Now! Results of the samaritan beta test, senator. One terrorist, as requested.  His real name  And what he was planning, Should you care to know the specifics. Rest assured, I'll get very well acquainted With the specifics. Assuming everything pans out I'll be in touch. So samaritan's losing the feeds then? For the moment. But we've gained the senator's confidence. And something far more valuable. Drive. So what's all the way out in mount vernon That's so important? At the time, it was outside new york city limits And samaritan's prying eyes. At the time? Decima's lost the feeds. So for now, the only one watching is her. Chin up, kids. You're not out of the game yet. Trust me. We lost finch, which means we lost everything. Not everything.  We now have seven of samaritan's servers. Like I said Trust me. You blindfolded her. I appreciate that. Least I could do. Had a feeling you'd prefer it that way. And I didn't want to get off on the wrong foot. After all You've been a very hard man to find.
I like your plane, frankie. He put it together himself. Okay, but you better eat your vegetables tonight, frankie boy. That kid. Such a little hooligan. Just like his old man. You were the one who toilet papered The neighbor's house right before a thunderstorm, Until ma busted you. Marched me over there to apologize. Mm-hmm, whining and crying. Took you, like, a week to clean it all up. Getting partial custody's done you good, jess. Every other weekend and a day each week. Frankie doesn't have to hear His ma and me hollering at each other. Can't complain. And you're dry. Get my two-year chip inThree weeks. You coming to the meeting? Wouldn't miss it. If you have class or something Mm-mm. Don't. You're the reason I can afford law school anyway. I'm just doing it for the bragging rights. My brother the lawyer. How about Your brother the prosecutor? You know? That's what I really wanna do. Jesse brandt? Who are you? Fbi, sir. You need to come with us. What? Why? We have a warrant for your arrest. It's okay, son. You stay with your uncle peter. What are the charges? I asked you a question. We don't need to answer your question, sir. National security exception. Read the warrant. My brother's an airline mechanic. You got the wrong guy! Jesse, it's gonna be fine. I'll get this sorted out, okay? You need to talk to us, otto. All we wanna know is Why do these decima guys keep killing themselves? It's for the insurance. Each agent gets a policy when they join the organization. Get caught, get nothing. Have an accident Their next of kin gets a payday. Well, mr. Payday there was our last lead on finch. We're back to square one. The machine says we have other things to worry about. Greer has finch. He's the only thing we have to worry about. I understand how you feel, john. But she assured me harold's not in immediate danger.  And we have a larger threat at hand. You wanna expand on that? She can't see the full picture. Well, how can we help when the machine can't even see What's going on? We'll be her eyes and ears. I apologize for the Unpleasant accommodation. It's truly a pleasure to put a face to the name, mr. Finch. I've been wanting to meet you for a long time now. What is it that you want, mr. Greer? I want to talk about the future. And who more qualified for that conversation Than the father of artificial intelligence? An unintended side effect of an altruistic goal. Altruism? Funny. I'd always imagined it was about the power of creation. I've felt it myself. Your endeavor to bring samaritan online Is a grave error in judgment. You must've known this moment would come. Or did you think nobody else could accomplish what you did, That you were unique? I must admit You played everyone very well Right up until this moment. And now your god has disappeared, Operating on its own accord. Children can be so disappointing. The world needs structure, mr. Finch And samaritan will provide that. I'd beware of false idols, mr. Greer. If you were so confident that samaritan was functional, Why did you go to such great lengths to find me? To keep an eye on you. As the father of ai, you're the only man in the world Who can destroy it. Where does that leave us then? Right here. Until the moment samaritan opens its eyes. And then the world Will no longer need you. Did you just steal a dead man's keys? She asked me to. Can I borrow your knife, john? While decima's too clever to use gps The satellite radio has a gps transponder. The boys might be able to pull off some data,  Find out where our recently deceased Decima friend has been. The boys? Hey, shut the door. It's freezing. I know them! They helped you rescue me from collier. You're that government hit man that made me pull out my molars. That's messed up. Relax, casey. I'm retired. What are they doing here, root? Daizo, jason, daniel, and I have been on the road Collecting certain Contraband in the tri-cities. That sounds both vague and dangerous. I was hoping we could use your safe house, john, Seeing as we went to all the trouble Of saving them in the first place. And as much as I'd love some girl talk, You need to go to the carlton hotel. And, uh, why do I need a satphone? Trust me. Quite the winter we're having. I don't supposed you're here to sell me On global climate change. Hmm. It would be nice if we could prepare for the future Instead of trying to clean up after the past.  I'm meeting with the president's  Intelligence advisor today. Use the beta test results to convince them. Samaritan is a sleeping giant. We need those feeds to awaken it.  I'm working on it. Don't worry, mr. Greer. They still wanna buy your system. Samaritan is not for sale, senator. Decima will retain ownership. We will provide you the critical information. You want me to give a private corporation access To the government feeds-- To 300 million americans-- Just so you can sell the information back to us? Samaritan is far superior to your last endeavor. It'll answer all your questions, It won't create riddles. There'll be no numbers to sort through. No uncertainties about culpability. Just pure unfettered information. Why would we agree to that? If we don't own the system, What exactly do we get? Plausible deniability. Samaritan is privately owned By a third party, One that can shoulder the blame For your next civil liberties scandal. And if I say no? Those are my terms, senator. You must ask yourself this. Do you wanna prevent acts of terror Or do you wanna stay in the dark and watch your country burn? That's all of 'em. Good. Get to work, boys. You got your hands on seven samaritan servers. You find anything on them? No, but they'll definitely find us If we don't get this right. How long? Ask jason for help if you need it. He's very good at getting into complex systems. You'll need this later. You're coming with me. Greenfield's not the only one Who can get into complex systems. I can help them if you fill me in, root. Not now, john. I need you for something else. Root, I'm at the carlton. What now? The machine doesn't know exactly what it's looking for,  So you'll need to tell me what you see. I spy Government license plates. Secret service. The machine must be seeing clearly now. We're getting numbers. Oh, my Five of them. And I know the first one by heart. Control. That's whose number we got? Control understands how the machine works. So she's covering her tracks. Well, the machine saw something. And if control is behind it, then it's something bad. Is this really what the machine asked us to do, Drink very bad coffee with  Unemployed college graduates? Patience, john. Are you in, shaw? just like you asked. You wanna tell me where I'm going? First door, down on your left. You'll need to let yourself in. Oh, you might wanna use your silencer. Don't. Next time your all-seeing other half Wants me to break into a room filled with secret service guys A little heads up would be great. She knows you can handle yourself. Okay, so we've got eyes and ears on control. She's with some guy-- tall, gray hair. Very serious. Senator ross garrison, our second number. Have their other friends arrived yet? That woman's got friends? You want me to help greer, The man who stole samaritan from me? Let's put your ego aside for a moment, shall we? Ross, I know that samaritan is an excellent plan "b." I just don't like having to pay for something That belongs to me in the first place. I accept that you lost the battle So we can win the war. Besides, Money isn't the issue here. I've seen the black budget. You've got plenty. What we need are the government feeds, And that's going to take some convincing. I don't control the way the congressional winds blow, ross. I really think that's your arena. I'm handling congress. But we need rivera on board. The president's bulldog. I need you to use your Special insight To convince him of the program's merits. There is intel from samaritan's beta test That you'll find useful. What do I get in return? An open system, One owned by a private entity That gives us plausible deniability While we continue to protect our country From terrorist attacks. You've been doing the job for years. There's no one better at this game than you. This is not a game, this is national security. Why don't you let me see the intel? Are you two hearing this?  They're ready to get in bed with decima  And go all 1984 on us. I meanMore than usual. Let me just shoot 'em now. We still don't know if they're the perpetrators yet, shaw. You're joking. It's control. She almost killed you, root. And me and harold. Should I continue? We all make mistakes. Look at the front door. What do you see? More government plates.  These our other numbers? Yes. Head of the nsa, general kyle holcombe, And manuel rivera, senior advisor to the president. And what about the fifth number? That's one's still a question mark. Okay, so Just to confirm, You're saying I can't kill control yet. Stay the course, sameen. Fine. But just remember I told you so when all this goes pear-shaped. You ready to have some fun? I thought you'd never ask. Who is he? I have no idea. Have you ever seen a newborn foal Trying to stand for the first time? Those trembling legs trying to balance, Shaking until the moment it finds itself on all fours. Seeing a child walk for the first time Is something extraordinary. But you watched your child stand And then you hobbled it. You could never understand. You're a destroyer, not a creator. I'm listening, mr. Finch. The machine It started developing abilities I never expected, Things I hadn't yet programmed it to do. And there wasn't an algorithm in the world That could control its exponential growth. And by the time I figured one out myself It would've been too late. Too late for what? Isn't that just the question? Having built something Significantly smarter than myself, How could I possibly anticipate its evolution? Hmm. Uncertainty. Your personal abyss. I built the machine to save lives, But how could I be certain that it wouldn't one day Determine that all of humanity was irrelevant? Please, you cannot allow samaritan to go online. The consequences of an open system Will be devastating. The father became fearful of his son, So he wounded him. A tale told time and again. I don't think of samaritan as a child. I'm not that presumptuous. But I plan to celebrate its brilliance Not muzzle it. It's pure hubris to think That you can control something so powerful. Whoever said I wanted to control it? I'm only here because we're friends, ross. The president has made it very clear He will not risk his hide on another surveillance program. Neither will I. Mr. Rivera, if I may-- You certainly may. You've been the one running this program. It's high time you explained yourself. Do you know how many hours I've spent Running interference for this northern lights debacle? Every civil liberties group from new york to hong kong Has their panties in a twist over this damn thing. As unfortunate as that is, We still need to protect our country. You want me to ask the leader of the free world To approve another domestic surveillance program When people are still learning The dirty little secrets of the old one? I'm not biting. Mr. Rivera, you have kids, am I right? Your point? They go to country day school. Again, your point? It's a terrific school, top notch. It's in georgetown near 27th and "o" street. What if I told you that, a year ago, Northern lights prevented a terrorist attack in georgetown?  An operator of ours intercepted and executed That would-be terrorist. She found him sitting in an unmarked sedan With a radiological bomb. It was made from the cesium that he stole From a dental x-ray machine. You're making up ghost stories to force my hand. I would've heard about this. No, you wouldn't have. We don't send out a press release Every time we save lives, we can't.  And while the public shouts from the rooftops About their civil liberties They do so under the protective bubble Of the very program in which they're railing against, The one that saves them from terrorist attacks Every single day, International and domestic. Vigilance. I was briefed on this group. We don't know who they're targeting next, But this group never does anything small. They're set to strike in the next 24 hours. The only way that we can stop this attack Is for us to get the government feeds back up And allow samaritan to do its job. Unless of course you want to Ignore the facts, And you can handle the cleanup duty Once there's a national tragedy. I'll read through this. Take your time. Unfortunately I've just run out. I've got a meeting across town. I'll check in with you later, manuel. Control just went in for the full-court press On total world domination. Can I kill her now? Not yet. Listen, whatever you're selling I'm not interested. Oh, he's not selling anything. We just have a few questions for you. Probably shouldn't move. It'll bleed more. Niall jacobs, new york license. Why are you important, niall? Fed pigs. Always ten steps behind. Guess he's not government. What is it? A stuxnet-based virus. What did this creative genius make? Looks like a self-replicating worm. Designed to attack what kind of system? A proprietary micro-switcher. But for what She doesn't know. Expensive hardware Hiding in plain sight. Well trained. You're vigilance. Did you say "vigilance?" because They're here. It must be to kill control and the others. I'm not a big fan of kicking a guy when he's down,  But Sometimes it does the trick. Now tell us your plan. I only know my part. That's why we're going to win. We're smarter than you and your fascist friends. You're too late to stop it from happening. Stop what? The revolution. Why is it taking so long? It has been two weeks. Your brother's under federal investigation, mr. Brandt. They haven't charged him, They haven't even allowed him to speak without an attorney. You are breaking every rule that ensures due process, And do not give me that national security exception crap. You and I both know that law was intended For immediate threats. Jesse very well may be one. My brother's never broken a law in his life. He works 60 hours a week, He pays his rent on time, he's a good father. I'm telling you you got the wrong guy. Look You're a bright guy. And you obviously love your brother Very much. I respect that. But sometimes the people we love the most Make the worst decisions. Jesse has connections to a man named aziz al-ibrahim.  Al-ibrahim's cousin Was part of an islamist terrorist group That tried to blow up an american embassy in egypt  On March 11th. Well, this is just a picture. Then let me add to it. We're not even muslim. I mean, this doesn't make any sense. Two years ago your brother made some changes in his life.  He'd been drinking, his wife left him. But then, jesse turned his life around. Sometimes when we hit bottom We ask the wrong people for help--  People who use our weaknesses against us,  Get us to do things that we never thought we could. Or would. Well, this This can't be true. Surveillance doesn't lie, mr. Brandt. If we're going up against vigilance, We're gonna need more ammo. I took some from our coffee shop friend Before lionel picked him up. We should be okay until our next stop. Terrific. More errands.  We're fighting two invisible enemies, john. Decima and vigilance know about the machine. These groups are clever, blinding her to their actions. Then get that brain trust of yours on it. I'm getting tired of the machine's runaround When finch is still out there. Where are you? Gimme a timetable. She's asking for an eta. Yeah, we've run into a couple of kinks with the hardware.  We've had to retrofit everything. How much time, daniel? At least two hours. What about the geo-locator data? Daizo's still working on it. You don't wanna tell me where we're going, fine. But I wanna know what those groupies of yours Are working on. Something to slow down our enemies. Do you have what we need? Got it this morning. Shaw? I think it's time you had a chat with your old boss. I'm on it.  We'll chat about how I'm gonna kill her. Use your words. Okay, so she's the victim this time. But what about the next? - Listen, shaw. If control's in touch with greer, She'll lead us to harold. Your trigger finger gets itchy, we'll get nothing and he dies. Low blow, reese. Agent shaw. Ma'am. Long time no gunfire. You know this woman? You remember the operator who took out the terrorist Near your children's school? What do you want? I can't believe what I'm about to say. I'm here to rescue you. Root. You have an update for me, jason? Jason and I combed through the virus's code. It's targeting custom-built micro-switchers Sold to one company. - Which one? The power company. Help shaw. Hurry. You're in danger. All of you. You received our numbers. Garrison's too.  Thought you were the perp at first since, well You've stung a lotta frogs, ma'am. Why are you protecting us? 'cause that's part of the Plan. For the greater good, or something like that. Look, honestly, I really don't know. I just know something bad's gonna happen. Shaw, I'm heading your way. Reese? What the hell was that? You know that bad thing that was gonna happen? I think it just did. How's he holding up? He won't talk about it. I just don't understand. Jesse had been doing so well. I know. That arrest did him in, pete. How do they just put someone in jail like that And not tell you anything? Maybe if I hadn't taken full custody Hey. After they let him out He was drinking. You were protecting your son. It's not your fault jesse killed himself. We're all responsible for our own actions. I'ma go sit with frankie. I didn't mean to interrupt. I just wanted to tell you How terribly sorry I am for your loss. What are you doing here? Jesse and I were friends.  Oh, really? Then why don't I know you? He was my sponsor. I'd be dead if it wasn't for jesse. He saved my life in so many ways. I wish I had been there for him. Why weren't you? A distant relative caused problems for my family. We barely knew him, but That doesn't matter now. Your brother was the most decent man I've ever known. That's for you, my friend. Oh, I can't. So you know That even though your brother killed himself, He saved someone else. A series of power failures Cause of the grid failure Are you warm enough, mr. Finch? I'm fine. I always think of my youth when the power goes out. Blackouts were a Everyday occurrence. The blitz. German air raids lasted nine months. Felt like years. You must've been very young. My mother and I used to sleep in the tube Along with many other families. One night we were late getting to the station. And I saw the sunset for the first time in Months. Hmm. It was the most beautiful thing I'd ever seen. But it wasn't a sunset at all. The sky was on fire. Is that why you joined the military? A high probability, given what I've learned about you And your interest in national security. By the time I was an adult Wars were no longer quite so straightforward. You were mi6. The era of the nation-state is over, mr. Finch. There are no more borders. Or hadn't you noticed? I think you're overestimating the power Of artificial intelligence. We both know that that is impossible. How often alliances shift In times of war. Not that those alliances Ever truly exist. They're an illusion. Like seeing a sunset in a sky of flames. What is it you expect from samaritan? I want to live under a more just rule. Samaritan will never sleep with its secretary, Or embezzle money from its campaign fund. Its decisions will be based on pure logic. NowThat's a leader deserving of our vote. Okay, who's strapped? Ma'am? I thought my protection detail Would be all the fire power I needed today. Okay. Well, then you're behind me. You too, rivera. Flank right, general. Let's roll. They're behind us! General! Let's move. I'm coming down. Start the generator. Take care of her! Sorry I'm late. No, as far as I'm concerned you were right on time. Where's root?  And what the hell happened with the lights? Vigilance uploaded a virus into the power grid. Where's control? Collier got her and rivera. But he took 'em alive. Vigilance has something else planned. Yeah, but what? Are the boys finished with the servers yet? We're almost there. Minutes away. I just had to ride up here for a bit. It was starting to smell like dude back there. Oh There you are. What'd your friend say? I have to warn them. You're not gonna believe me, hersh. But we're not here to kill control. We're here to save her. You can lie better than that, shaw. Just 'cause you stopped listening to the numbers  Doesn't mean they've stopped coming. Why didn't vigilance just kill them? That's a good question. Now's not a good time. Remember when I said finch wasn't in imminent danger? I may have been a little hasty. In good news I know who the fifth number belongs to. It was tucked away under several aliases, but Even mi6 can't hide from her.  Mr. Greer. And greer has finch. Which means that vigilance Is about to have him unless we can get to him first. You won't make it there in time. Well, where's "there," root? Still too hard to see. Then how are we supposed to find him? The machine doesn't know. But hersh does.  Be careful, shaw. Where's finch? You think I know? My friend is never wrong, Which is As annoying as that sounds. Decima.  You know where to find them? Why would I trust you? I haven't shot you yet and you did try to kill me. Well, he did kill me. Those were my orders. Besides, you got me back, shaw. Oh, not even close. I drugged you. I left you with your heart still beating. I think we're getting off topic. You're right. We need to work together to save finch.  We save our friend, Then we help you rescue control. Reese. It's the right move. Your turn, shaw. Not on your life, george. Well, there's no way this could go wrong. You're late. You try getting across town in a blackout. Who's that? That is the most important man in the world, senator, The father of the new age. My team just got word That vigilance kidnapped my colleagues. We need to get out of the city. I'm afraid we won't have enough time. Senator garrison.  You know Your men should really encrypt their text messages. Or avoid them altogether. Kidnapping a senator will get you life. Mr. Greer. Pleasure to make your acquaintance.  Well, now I'm not usually a fan of surprises, But this This is one I'll happily except. Harold, is it? You know, our last conversation was so rudely interrupted And I still have so many questions for you. You're coming with us. So where is langdon? He took a job in d.C., But I'm familiar with your brother's case. The man you thought he was working with Turned out to be just a friend from aa. My brother wasn't a terrorist. I heard what happened with your brother, And I am terribly sorry for your loss. Don't give me your platitudes, all right? You people are the reason he killed himself. We had evidence-- you had nothing! You locked him up under some loophole Until it destroyed him! He lost his job, he lost his family. Innuendo turned out to be just as damaging as a conviction. He could never be cleared Because the government never pressed charges. Innocent people don't kill themselves, mr. Brandt. No, people without hope do. And you robbed him of that. You took the wrong information and you twisted it. You're supposed to lock up the criminals, Not create them. And you took my brother's life, so what does that make you? My car's out front. Oh, you think you're driving? Well, you're certainly not driving. I'll drive. I'll pass. Okay, here's the deal. I'm gonna drive, reese sits in the back, While you ride shotgun, agreed? We're done. The servers are ready. Perfect timing. Because this is as far as you boys go. Everything you need is inside. That car'll take each of you where you need to be. Yeah, we've come this far. We're not leaving you now. She's done the math. If we go together, you all die andI do too. If I go alone, the odds improve. Slightly. And just where are you going exactly? Boys Meet samaritan. They're not here. Then where are they? I can't tell you how long I've waited for this moment.  How long we've all been waiting. Now is the time to expose the truth To our fellow citizens The truth that has been lurking beneath the shadows For so long That their country is no longer theirs That their freedoms have been stripped away  One camera, one cell phone, one megabyte at a time. Now's the time to pull back the curtain. Welcome to your trial, ladies and gentlemen. And welcome to the trial Of the United States government. Court is now in session.
Two hours have passed since the city of new york Plunged into darkness. Authorities have not yet ruled out The possibility of a terrorist attack. A press conference has been scheduled Welcome to your trial, ladies and gentlemen, And welcome to the trial Of the United States government. Court is now in session. Anyone else want to shoot this guy? Little bit. That's an old courthouse? Where is that? Someone'll recognize it. Half the city is out in the streets. What? Well, I guess we're not gonna question them. They're decima. They'll go out a window before they'll talk. Let's get out of here before anymore of 'em show up. We got to stop that trial. You stand accused of betraying Your fellow citizens, Of trading in our democracy For a police state, And we've taken great pains to give you a fair trial. To honor your right to counsel, we've brought in The best defense attorney in town. To ensure an equitable verdict Right here. We've selected a jury of your peers And since a free press is vital In every democracy, we've invited the media Keep moving. Come on, sit down. And opened up these proceedings To observers around the world. How's that signal down there? Satellite uplink is good.  We're streaming live all over the world, and counting. Now, the charges against you are grave: Of illegal wiretapping, plus conspiracy, Espionage, and treason. The last two are punishable by death. Some of you, We have dead to rights; Others, the facts are less clear. So anyone who's willing to confess their crimes And testify against their co-conspirators Will be granted leniency. The choice is yours. The prosecution calls manuel rivera. As your attorney, I-- Don't worry, harold, your secret's safe with me. Not so sure about her. Must have shown the photo to a dozen people. Nobody seems to recognize the courthouse. Well, we need a lead fast. With vigilance playing judge and jury, Executioner won't be far behind. Be at the intersection Of 5th and 23rd in 15 minutes. Good-bye, shaw. Wait, root, is that all? Where are you? Right where I'm supposed to be. You found it, didn't you. Samaritan. Maybe. Did you find harold? She's worried about him. So am I. We're working on it, But seriously, are you about to kamikaze Into a decima fortress with a bunch of nerds? Didn't know you cared, shaw, and it's just me now. But the machine has your back, right? Right? Tick-tock. So we're going to It's complicated. Root's gonna get herself killed. Go, we'll find harold. Go how? Gonna need to borrow this. Fine, just--just take it. You know how to ride one of these things? You got a way about you, hersh. Be good, shaw. Ten minutes, let's move. Mr. Rivera, what is northern lights? I had nothing to do with that. Really? The intelligence advisor to the president Had nothing to do with a secret intelligence program? People would like to submit exhibits a1 through a46, Classified documents detailing the secret operations Of northern lights. Care to guess how many of these documents Bear your signature? Who do you think you are? Are you or are you not Part of a vast sustained criminal conspiracy Who the hell are you? To spy on every woman, man, and child in the u.S Order! Order! Order! You have no power, And the only criminal here is you Since 2005! Order! And your terrorist organization! So who's ready to tell the truth and nothing but the truth? My brother wasn't a terrorist. We had evidence You had nothing! Locked him up under some loophole Until it destroyed him! Hey, man, what are you-- stop! Help! Come on Hello? What is this? Where am I? What? What do you know about me? Oh, what are you, government? Fbi, cia? Action against People, huh? Who are you? Vigilance? What do you want from me? Collier. You peter collier? Yes. Yes, I am. "these are the times that try men's souls." All we need is a name. Who among you is most directly responsible For northern lights? Whoever offers up that name will live. What about you, sir? Who can tell me about harold here? Objection. Is this a trial, Or just a long-winded execution? Well, it looks like we have Another legal practitioner among us. You don't get to cherry-pick the law, counselor. The sixth amendment guarantees people like harold The right to know the specific charges against them. I am acutely aware of the bill of rights. You want the appearance of a fair trial? Bottle the histrionics. Present your case. People call senator ross garrison. That's 23rd and 5th up ahead. Root sent us here for bikes? Nypd. Drop your weapons. Hands where I can see them. Get off, bear. What the hell are you doing? Some nutjob just jacked a kid on a bike. I thought you were looters. Nice ride, lionel. You know this guy? I haven't seen you since the blackout. How'd you find us? Dog showed up at the precinct with a message from cuckoo clock To meet at this intersection. Didn't know she meant you and this guy. Vigilance caused the blackout. They set up a kangaroo court To go after anyone tied to the machine. What machine? We got to go find harold. They're streaming the trial. Nypd know where from? What trial? We're kind of busy with the blackout.  We got a bunch of guys smashing up  5th avenue, looting. What guys? Bunch of jackasses Running around in masks. Diversion tactic, vigilance. Why don't you take a lap around the block, lionel? What, why? 'cause we're gonna need some gear From that sporting goods store up the street. It'd probably be best if the nypd Isn't around when we smash in the front door. Got seven more servers for you. Let's get them scanned. This shipment's two days late. Where the hell have you been? Honestly? Planning this. Hey! Looks like someone crawled in under the fence. Admit it, you were worried about me. I'm worried about the mission. Reese and hersh are trying to save finch, But that won't matter if samaritan kills us all. Then let's get to work. Oh, it's gonna be that kind of party, huh? Decima tags its people. Anyone who doesn't have an rfid chip Will stick out like a sore thumb. Ready for your shot? Senator, you've denied any knowledge Of northern lights, yet your name Appears in these documents some 37 times. Now, how do you explain that? Maybe you shouldn't believe everything You read on the internet. Exhibit d7. They find out we're spying on the american people, We all go to jail. Deny, shred, burn anything related to northern lights. It doesn't exist. You care to rephrase your answer, senator? Those comments were taken out of context. Thank you for protecting me, Although I'm baffled as to why. The same reason I've done everything, harold, For my country. And you can't help me if you're dead. I told you, I had nothing to do With the development of northern lights. Damn thing was up and running when I was read in. I just got stuck with cleaning up the mess. Hardly seems fair that your life Should be in danger for someone else's misdeeds. So if you're not the guy, who is? It never was a guy that was in control, was it? You may step down, senator. You care to join us, ma'am? Well, this should be fun. One street view cam. Well, it's not viewing streets anymore. The look on that driver's face was priceless. Got to be 100 grand worth of hardware in this thing. It's getting to be you can't tell A search engine from the nsa. "don't be evil," my ass. Take it apart. Yeah!  "just take it, please don't hurt me.  I have a family." Hey, toss me one. You don't think he saw our faces, do you? Let's do something. We could dox someone. I brought my laptop. Tonight, we got one off the streets. Tomorrow, they build 100 more. It's not enough. We got the hard drive. Could write a virus, infect the whole fleet. No, they'll just look for a patch. Doesn't put a dent In data mining, domain awareness. We need to adjust our sights. Our sights? This is an information war. We need to go after the people who control it, Abuse it, destroy people's lives, And answer to no one. Now you're talking. What do you have in mind? A statement. Someone who represents Everything that's wrong With an unchecked orwellian state. And we put them in the crosshairs, And we teach them a lesson no one will forget. Can you identify these documents for the court? Well, let's start with something simpler. What is "research"? I have here more than 300 pages documenting illegal wiretaps, Interrogations, and assassinations carried out By northern lights all using information From something called research, and all from One two-week period.  Now, no bureaucracy moves that fast, So let me rephrase the question. Is "research" an automated system? Is it a machine? As a sworn officer of the u.S. Government, I can neither confirm nor deny Anything pertaining to this matter, And I will say the same damn thing To every other question Until the moment you put that gun to my head And pull the trigger. As soon as this is over, I'm cutting This stupid chip out of my arm. I'll do yours if you do mine. Ready for the moment of truth-- Or lies really? Damn it. Computers can bite me. Whoo-hoo-hoo-hoo! Ah! Stop! I think he likes you. Stay. What are you doing? What's with the friendly fire, yo? You're off the map, dumbass. Collier sent us here to rein you in Before you screw up the plan. Courthouse is here. You're supposed to be here Drawing the cops away from the trial. No, man, courthouse is there. I just delivered the gennies this morning, So I'd know, wouldn't I? Guess you would. Thanks. Been looking for this little bastard all night. He's all yours. We're due in court. You have seen the proof that the woman before you Was the ringleader of a criminal organization Called northern lights. We've implicated her in the summary execution Of 17 american citizens, and those are just the ones We know about.  And through it all, She shows no remorse, And I think her silence speaks volumes. Since we don't have time for deliberation, We'll put it to a vote. The defendant is presumed innocent. Who among you find her guilty? Jury finds the defendant guilty. Sentence to be carried out immediately. Come on, let's go. Where were you when flight 77 hit the pentagon? Because I was inside it. I carried out the wounded. I covered up bodies. And I have spent every day since Putting bullets in the people responsible And in anyone else who even thinks That they can do that to our country again. You want to shoot me Because I had to tap a few phone calls, Read a few e-mails, Then you go right ahead. But you better turn That gun on yourself next, Mr. Collier, because you have broken Just as many laws, And the only difference is, I didn't wrap myself up in the american flag And try to convince people that I was a hero. I believe you love your country. I believe that when you started, People thought what you were doing  Made a lot of sense. But it's gone too far,  And it has to stop. Please, Who built the machine? How does it work? Where is it located? Honestly? I don't know. You don't know? The woman in charge of it all doesn't know. Well, if you don't know, who does? The people have spoken. Stop. I can help you. The questions you're asking, I know the answers. Really? How do you know? Because I built it. Everyone needs to turn in their phone. We're switching up communication. It's no longer safe for us to meet here as a group. What's going on, peter? Security measure. From now on, storage units Will only be used as message centers. Wait a second. I thought this was a democracy. Why don't we-- Want to put it to a vote, adams? I want to know what the hell we're doing, Instead of just doxing another politician, Another ddos attack on some intel site. Well, what do you suggest? Blow something up, take someone out. You wanted to make a statement? Well, let's do it. Violence. We are not terrorists. We target specific violators, no collateral damage. Who do you suggest we go after? People who destroy lives, like they did to your brother. All right, let's put it to a vote. Wait a minute. But I say we name the target, and I have an idea. The kind of person who went after my brother. It's recording. Knew you wouldn't be dumb enough to wear a wire. What is going on here? It's all in the file. Or why don't you just tell her, adams? My god, it's you. You're fbi. First he went after my brother, now they're after me. I guess I don't need to wear the mask anymore, huh? Where did you get this? This is a bunch of nonsense. "tyranny like hell is not easily conquered. "the harder the conflict, the more glorious the triumph. "what we obtain too cheap, we esteem too lightly. It is dearness only that gives everything value." Especially life. How's that for a statement? Anybody else want to put it to a vote? Phones in the bucket, And take out this garbage. We've got a lot of work to do. It's the largest blackout the United States has seen Since the northeast blackout of 2003. Department is doing everything in its power To assure the safety of our citizens And their property. You built it? One man is responsible For the most invasive surveillance technology In the world? I'm good with computers. I had a feeling there was Something special about you, harold. I'm willing to tell you whatever you want to know, But only if you agree to spare the lives Of everyone else in this courtroom. Well, before we release anybody, We need to hear your testimony first. On September the 12th, 2001, I began coding In a complex surveillance system that would be known By many code names over the years, Although I always just called it "the machine." So this is samaritan's brain? Part of it. So what's the deal, you just plug 'em in, Then it's lights out, samaritan? Something like that. These two rows didn't light up. It didn't work? Those lights staying dark is a good thing. Samaritan's a.I. Won't get switched on Until greer gets the government feeds. Those lights turn blue We're screwed. We're inside a sleeping giant, shaw. Try not to wake it up. That van's some type of guard post. Looks like we're getting warm. Vigilance, all six dead. Guess we're not the only ones these guys have pissed off. How does it work? Who do you think beat us to the punch? February of 2005, The machine's information was provided They were watching the trial. Although the servers remained at ift. Oh, no, finch. By the time we turned it over to the government in 2009, The machine had helped stop Saving an estimated I don't know how many it's saved since. So even though northern lights was shut down, Your machine was still operational.  Where is it now? I'm afraid not even I know that. Do you have access to it? Can we turn it off? You have nothing to fear from my system, Mr. Collier, I assure you. You'll forgive me if I don't take you at your word. The machine's only output is a number. That's all the government ever gets, Just a nudge to say, "there's something you should look at here,"  And that's up to us to figure that out. So it brands people as suspects, guilty until proven innocent. No, not my intention. That's what happened. It had to be a closed system. It was the only way to protect people's rights. You expect us to believe you gave one thought About people's rights as you were building The government a weapon of mass surveillance? Not a weapon. What else would you call it? I would call it the best I could do.  And it never occurred to you The damage this thing could do, The lives it could destroy? It occurred to me on day one, Mr. Collier, and every day since. If you're asking me if I feel at ease With what I've created, or whether it was The right or the wrong thing to do, I honestly don't know. But I designed the machine  In part because I was worried, And I remain worried, about what someone else might build Someone who wasn't worried. Nothing wrong with a dictatorship, So long as you're the dictator. I rest my case. Shall we put it to a vote? Command, one of our guard posts Has been hit. No survivors, repeat, no survivors. Looks like we'll need a change of venue. Defendants to the backup location. The rest stay here.  Hold them off as long as you can, And one way or another, justice will be served. Let's go. Easy. All right, stop right here. Line 'em up, facing the courthouse. Abandoned post office, this must be it. Big place. Spread out, sweeping clear. Give me a call if you get in over your head. Next time I see you, I'll probably have to kill you. Well, you're welcome to try. Since we appear to be out of time, We'll have to forego the jury verdict And issue a summary judgment. I've upheld my end of our bargain, mr. Collier. I confessed, guilty as charged. If your revolution requires blood, take mine. Just please let everyone else go. Take cover! Decima! Return fire! We're clearing an extraction route, sir. We should move quickly. Noble attempt at self-sacrifice, harold, But experience has taught me Never to negotiate with terrorists. My private forces will see you safely  Back to washington. Let's go. You two, I'm afraid, Will be here for the brief remainder of your lives. He's no longer a threat. Please, he doesn't have to die. Oh, but I'm afraid he does. Why? Because of you, harold. Because of what you built. Looks like somebody already took out These vigilance guys. Oh, dear. I think I might be in over my head. I'm a little busy myself. Unless you're looking at a big-ass bomb  Wired to blow when the power comes back on, I think I win. What a piece of work is your machine, harold. "in action, how like an angel. In apprehension, how like a god." In 20 years time, life on earth will come to resemble The myths of the ancient greeks. A pantheon of super intelligent beings Will watch over us Using human agents to meddle in our affairs. Or they may simply destroy us all. One could argue we've done a fair job of that ourselves. Besides, someone has to be in charge, but as you well know, Gods are not easily born. In order to bring mine into being, I needed a devil. Vigilance. Go ahead and kill me. Damage is already done. Everyone in the world heard the testimony In that courtroom tonight. Mr. Collier, who do you think Makes the equipment that you used to transmit? Your trial was broadcast to a single office On the other side of town where a handful Of computers led you to believe That the whole world was watching. It's high time you and I had a talk About the true nature of vigilance. You don't know anything about us. Oh, I know a great deal more than you think. After all, tyranny, like hell, Is not easily conquered. You didn't really believe this was a democracy, did you? Your grassroots movement has been meticulously planned From the beginning. In fact, I recruited you myself. Decima created vigilance? Why? Your machine did its job too well. I had remind senator garrison and his ilk Of just how bad things could be. And what better way to remind them Than a fresh atrocity on american soil? What atrocity? In all our dealings, We never killed one innocent person. Not until now. All right, hersh, I'm on my way. What's your 20? Never mind. Just get your boss and get out. Hersh? You're too late. Here come the policemen. Their poor families. What a loss. Whatever you're planning, please. It's not me. It's mr. Collier, isn't it? In a last desperate act, your young misguided lot Decided to go out with a bang, Along with a whole host of police, Reporters, and innocent civilians. Or at least that's how history will remember it. Nypd. Down on the ground. Power's coming back on. I can get it. Hersh, get out of there now. I can get it. Sooner or later, the truth will come out. To quote your benjamin franklin, "three may keep a secret As long as two of them are dead." I'm glad that you've lived long enough To see the dawn of the new world You created, harold, But the time has come for your god and mine To do battle, and regrettably, Our paths diverge here. We'll retrieve them at once. No need. We'll find them all soon enough. I'm sorry we were unable to prevent vigilance From this terrible act. If only we'd had more warning, Perhaps we could have been there in time. How quickly can you bring samaritan online? Immediately. The government feeds are all we require. You'll have them within the hour. Last one. Want to get out of here? Not without an insurance policy In case your way doesn't work. Just tell me where to put this thing-- This facility is 1 of 100 just like it all over the world. It would take years to destroy them all, And decima would only rebuild them. Well, then your magic boxes better shut this thing down. Shaw, this was never about turning it off. Well, then what the hell have we been doing? I hear you. We need to go. She says we're in danger. Receiving the government feeds now, sir. Then by all means, let there be life. That's good enough for now. Have shaw take a look at it when she gets back. First time's the worst, huh? Why would you ever choose a career Where this was an occupational hazard? Well, I tried to quit, But some jackass told me I needed a purpose. Get out of the library, now. It isn't safe there anymore, harold. Miss groves? Are you and miss shaw-- Card catalog by the window, top drawer on the right. Hurry. What's going on? Your new identities are inside. Destroy everything else. I take it your plan to stop samaritan was unsuccessful. Any chance we had of stopping it Ended when we didn't kill the congressman. This was never about winning. It's just about surviving. Higher functions online, sir. Searching for targets now. Good. Eliminate them all. Yes, sir. The machine and I couldn't save the world. We had to settle for protecting the seven people Who might be able to take it back, So we gave samaritan a blind spot. Seven key servers that hard-codes it To ignore seven carefully crafted new identities.   today we escape     we escape     pack and get dressed   When the whole world is watched, Filed, indexed, numbered, The only way to disappear is to appear, Hiding our true identities Inside a seemingly ordinary life.   before     all hell     breaks loose   You're not a free man anymore, harold. You're just a number.   breathe   We have to become these people now, And if we don't, they'll find us, And they'll kill us. I'm sorry, harold. I know it's not enough.   breathe   A lot of people are going to die.   keep breathing     I can't do this     alone   People who might have been able to help. Everything is changing. I don't know if it will ever get better But it's going to get worse.   a song to keep us warm   But the machine asked me to tell you something Before we part. You once told john the whole point of pandora's box Is that once you've opened it, you can't close it again.   and you can laugh   She wanted me to remind you of how the story ends. When everything is over, and the worst has happened, There's still one thing left in pandora's box Hope.   wisdom choke you     now     we are one     in everlasting peace   Good morning. I assure you, it's quite the other way around. The question is, what, my dear samaritan, Are your commands for us?   we hope     that you choke     that you choke
Scotch, neat. Make it a double. That good, eh? Let's see. I lost my job today. Top it all off, they canceled my flight. - Ouch. Sorry. - I'm a journalist. Comes with the territory. You religious? Seriously? That's the line you're going with? No, I'm just curious if you believe in a higher power. Imagine if the world had utterly changed and no one had noticed a thing. I'm talking about an international stealth operation to acquire and shutter every company researching artificial intelligence. Artificial intelligence? That's a real thing? Oh, it's here. I think an A.l. slipped into the world, unannounced. Then set out to strangle its rivals in the crib. And I know I'm onto something because my sources keep disappearing my editor got reassigned and now my job's gone. More and more it just feels like I was the only one investigating the story. I'm sorry. I'm sure I sound like a real conspiracy nut. No, I understand. You're saying an artificial intelligence bought your paper so you'd lose your job and your flight would be canceled. And you'd end up back at this bar where the only security camera would go out and the bartender would have to leave suddenly after getting an emergency text. The world has changed. You're not the only one who's figured it out. You're one of three. The other two will die in a traffic accident in Seattle in 14 minutes. The early results are impressive. Samaritan has pre-empted multiple threats to national security. You're welcome, senator. Your machine seems to be even more aggressive than Northern Lights. Samaritan is designed to be proactive. We can't afford to miss even one terrorist now, can we? All assurances aside what really concerns me is accountability. Accountability? It appears Decima Technologies has been dismantled as a viable business entity. Which makes me wonder who exactly is getting the NSA feeds? We had a deal, senator. We get the feeds, you get the relevant numbers. What we do with that information is entirely up to us. That deal offered us plausible deniability. If the public ever gets wind of Samaritan I just hope you're somewhere to be found. I wonder if our fine senator has become more of a problem than an asset. One that needs to be eliminated. And what about Harold Finch and his associates? Ah. That's unlike you. Still, I'm sure whatever rock they decided to hide under we'll find them as soon as they emerge. - Must be allergic. - Oh! - Whoops. - Certainly looking fierce today, sweetheart. Unfortunately, we hired you to sell this stuff not scare off the customers. Lady over there has been waiting 15 minutes for a makeover. Now, put on a smile and snap to it, will you? Okay, this, uh, day-job thing? Not really working out. Sorry, Sam. You need an identity. And you need to trust the machine. Wait, the machine put me in this silly-ass job? It's the only way to keep you alive and off Samaritan's radar. For what it's worth, I really like the new look. You're definitely an autumn. I could stab you with my stiletto. Enough already. Now, when are we getting new numbers? Keep it down. The machine has its reasons. Stay in character. Follow the calendar on the phone I gave you. Check Angler, maybe find a match. A match? As in a date? Make it look good. But for now, I need you to make me look good. New job interview. Just promise me John's a barista. Why down here, yo? N.Y.P.D.'s got cams all over the city. Can't be too careful. Where's the product? Uncut Afghan snow. It's stamped? Where'd you get it from? Enough talk. Show us the damn money. It's in the trunk. It's all here. We'll take that. Matter of fact, we'll take it all. - This is where you get off. - You don't want to do that. Oh, no? Waste this bitch. Down on the ground! Hands behind your head! Detective? - You okay? - Escort these clowns to the E.R. Get the drugs and money to Evidence. Gotta go. Sir, don't you need to file a report? Firing your service weapon. It wasn't my weapon. Hello. My name is Professor Whistler and I'll be teaching this semester's course on the Ethics of High Frequency Decision Making. Which I will endeavor to make more interesting than that sounds. You all should've received a copy of the syllabus along with a list of general guidelines and appropriate expectations. As a visiting associate, my office hours will be limited. All grades are final, so please don't come to see me expecting to negotiate a higher grade. Later. All right, then. That concludes today's lecture. Your reading assignments will be posted on the department website. Thank you. Come on, Bear. Professor, given the modest number of students who have signed up to take your course the department may be relocating you to a smaller venue. - I see. - Oh, and I managed to make it through your dissertation. I found it a very interesting read. Not certain how you were able to obtain a $9 million grant for such an obscure field. I flagged a few typos. Certainly. Thank you. Oh. One more thing. We do have a "no dogs on campus" rule. Precedent, you understand. Not the first corner boy to catch a bullet on these rooftops. This place is like a shooting range for gangbangers. What brings you up to the Bronx, detective? Last I checked, I was in Homicide. This here looks like a body. What's Narcotics doing here, detective? Felix was an affiliate of a street gang taking over the heroin trade. Yeah? Well, now he's unaffiliated. If he was dealing, we didn't find no junk on him. - No bank neither. - Wire strippers. What's this kid doing up here with a pair of crimpers? Maybe he was jacking cable. Another favorite pastime in this hood. He didn't even live in the building, Fusco. Why don't you let the task force conduct the investigation? It's just a shame we got here too late. You and your pals used to be good at getting in front of this stuff. What are you doing fooling around in Narcotics? You gonna tell me what's going on? When I figure it out, Lionel, you'll be the first to know. - We all want to push negativity - All right, I'm here. and open ourselves up to positivity. Why? Because positive people are happier people. So I'm gonna share with you the secret of how to become more positive in three simple steps. - Oh, boy. Number one make happiness a choice. Romeo? I don't think so. Decide to rid your life of negativity. Be free from self-doubt. Be free from the doubters around you Is that your perfume? I could smell you down the hall. I know you're gonna do it. This stupid day job. Nametag's a nice touch. - What the hell are you doing here? - Calendar alert. Me too. - Then why are we both here? - Because we're all here for a reason, right? Look for the positive in life. - This sucks. - Mm. - Excuse me. - Excuse us. You're a cop? Hey, at least you get to crack a few skulls, carry a gun. New job's got me chasing junkies and bagging bodies after the fact. Stupid cover jobs. What are we doing? Because if our friend has a plan I am not seeing it. Dream. Tram. Foxtrot. Six. November. Mike. Up. X-ray. Kilo. Road. Looks like we're back in business. How goes the day job, Detective Riley? Personally, I prefer my real job, Finch. Professor Whistler, please. We're getting numbers again, Harold. We need to get back to work. I'm no longer your coworker, detective. I'm done taking orders from a computer. I thought I made that clear after it instructed us to kill a congressman. It also helped us to save Grace. - And now more lives need saving. - I'm not sure that's what we're really doing. I've totaled the lives we've saved against deaths we've caused and I'm afraid we've been operating at a loss. People who would be alive if we hadn't interfered. You don't know that. What would've happened if we hadn't intervened? There is a larger power in play now. One that we are presently ill-equipped to face. - Samaritan? - Please be quiet. Here. I could really use your input on this one. Ali Hasan. Owns an electronics shop in the Bronx. He's good with computers. Kind of like you, Harold. If you or Sameen or anyone else attempt to intervene with these numbers you will surely find yourselves dead. - We have to do something. - We have no resources, John. - The library's gone. - So we'll get another place. You understand they're always watching? We can't even talk on the telephone. There is no sanctuary. You can't be the man in the suit. You're a cop, I'm a professor. - That's just the way it is. - We don't need jobs, Harold. We need a purpose. The world has changed, John. I'm sorry. Bean For the time being, he'll be happier with you. If it's not about helping the numbers anymore, then what? It's about survival, John. Ben, I'm back from lunch. We got a problem, yo. - How can I help you? - Don't play, old man. We got a communications breakdown. First, you rat our burners out to the N.Y.P.D the ones you sold us. Now, your new phones ain't working right. The way I see it, you owe us a whole new system. Everything all right, Dad? Not if you don't get those web orders boxed for FedEx by 3 p.m. Go. I held up my end. I gave your men all the equipment. - Even taught them how to set it up. - Yeah, the problem is my boy Felix got a bullet on the rooftops. So now you're finishing the job. Dominic wants a new network up and running in the next 48. I cannot be involved in this. It's a little late for that, isn't it? Get your boy to help you out. - You leave him out of this. - I'm just saying. Got a lot of people counting on you, don't you? - Clock is ticking. - These are ready to go, Pop. Is there anything else? Forty-eight hours, old man. Let's go. Can I help you find something? Wire crimpers. Ben. Perfect match, don't you think? This kid ever been in your store before? Found him on a rooftop a couple blocks from here with a pair of wire crimpers just like these. Lots of places sell them. I wish I could help you more. You're a smart guy. Good with computers. You're a very private person, aren't you, Ali? I think you're in trouble. I figure I can help you. Going gets tough, call me. Why didn't you just tell him? These are bad guys, we're in over our heads. Let me handle this, Ben. I built this store. I won't be bullied. This is not the old country, Dad. You can talk to the police. Talking to the police is what got us in this. I will mind my business you will mind yours. It's Link. Leave a message. I fixed it. Meet me in Times Square. I'll give you a phone that works. So, what's this Egyptian guy have to do with my DOA? Felix was in a gang called the Brotherhood. Near as I can tell, they're forcing Ali to build some kind of private phone network the cops can't tap. So they're meeting here for privacy? For the people. There's too many signals. N.Y.P.D. can't pinpoint who's calling who. Ali's smart, but these guys are too. Old man. The network should be up and running. But with all the tall buildings, the battery drains quickly. You need an extra battery pack. Dominic wants signal from the East River to the Hudson. It will take a little bit more time. But you can check the signal up to five blocks east. Stay here. I'm gonna call you in five. This better work. Ali's tracking Link's phone. Keep an eye on him. It looks like your guy's sending a text. That's not a text. That's a detonation code. Battery's a bomb. Ali's not the victim, he's the perpetrator. Give me the phone. The phone. You're full of surprises, Mr. Hasan. Turning your cell phone into a mobily detonated explosive device. - Where'd you learn that? - I'm guessing Egyptian military. Unit 777. The Brotherhood is threatening you. We can help you, Mr. Hasan. But you have to talk to us. I came to the police once. Gave you the serial numbers of the phones they purchased for my store. It did nothing. They know you're listening to them, they know where your cameras are. They're smarter than you. This Dominic, he wanted you to build some kind of private phone network? It doesn't matter anymore. You can't protect me so I protect myself my store my family. That's why I had to act. - They threatened my son. - Where's your son right now? - Why do you want to know? - Link isn't dead. - What? - He escaped. How? Ben We'll call your son on the way. Let's go. Ben? Ben? - Keep him back there, Lionel. - Ben? Oh, no. It's all clear. He's not here. They took my son. - Hello? - Hey, old man. - You know who this is? - Yes. Yeah, you took your shot, but you missed. Now I've got your boy. And you got till midnight to get the network up or he won't be coming home. Don't waste time going to the cops. You know we see them coming. - What have I done? - We're gonna help you, Mr. Hasan. - How? - By getting your son back. You? Haven't you done enough? Not yet, I haven't. Keep an eye on him. - Hello? - Hey, it's me-. I need you to drop the eyeliner, pick up a gun, and help me take down a criminal street gang. I'd really like to, but that sounds like a bad idea. Yeah, that's what Fusco says. I guess I'm full of them today. You go off the reservation, they'll find you. And if you go down, we all go down. We have a chance to get out ahead of this one. I'm going in with or without you. Where's the kid? - What kid, man? - The one Link kidnapped. Your punk ass is crazy. I'm about to bleed you. Now you know, you really shouldn't hold those things sideways. You can't aim it, you'll eject a shell casing into your Ah, forget it. Last chance. Where's Link? - Man, Link's bringing in the Whale. - The Whale? I told you it was a bad idea. In her defense, she had to work quickly. Professor. One moment, please. What brings you here today, Miss Groves? Your former associates, the mayhem twins. - They're back to trying to save people. - I'm aware. Then you're also aware that they're gonna get themselves caught or killed without your help. I explained as much to John though I'm not sure how long they'd survive even with my assistance. I assure you the outcome will be determined if you don't get involved. And this advice is coming from you, Miss Groves, or from the machine? Now is not the time to be precious, Harold. You don't get to sit this one out. The world can't afford to indulge your indecision. - Oh, I think I made my decision quite clear. - Sorry, you have to pick a side. Because this is war. And the thing we're up against, it has virtually unlimited resources. Governments working unwittingly at its behest. Operatives around the globe protecting it. You know how many we have? Five. Six if you count the dog. You have a god in this fight, Harold. And she's fighting for her life. I wouldn't know. She only talks to you, Miss Groves. Just because you stopped listening to her doesn't mean she isn't looking out for you. This job, your identity, is her keeping you alive. She has a plan, Harold. But she needs you to sit up and pay attention. To what, the numbers? In the face of such a struggle, saving one or two people what difference would that make? Every life matters. You taught me that. The numbers, our identities, they all mean something. It all adds up to something. All of this matters. We all matter. You got your friends into this mess. The least you can do is get them out of it. What happened? I saved your ass, that's what happened. - I had things in hand, Shaw. - Yeah, things like a grenade launcher. You can't do that anymore, Reese. Neither of us can. We get caught, we get exposed. And then it's lights out. Ugh. No means no, asshat. I need to get back to work. I might still need your help, Shaw. - Did you not hear anything I just said? - Yeah, I did. But I'm also trying to save a kid. You had to put it that way. - You said you'd get my son back. - And I will. If you can't find Ben, I must have this network up before midnight. I've gone over everything I can think of, but it still won't connect. Perhaps I can be of some assistance. Detective Fusco said I might find you here. - Who are you? - He's a friend. Do you know anything about wireless network architecture? A bit. I think you'll find I'm a quick study. - I'll leave you to it. I'm gonna track down Link. - Detective. Whatever your plans, I urge you to be discreet. Our current circumstances require that we play by the rules. So then I'll find someone who doesn't. Phone. Hello, John. How many nodes are in the network? Honestly, I don't even know. I should've never agreed to build this thing in the first place. Look, why don't we start over? Tell me how you constructed the network. Maybe it's better if I just showed you. This is it. This is one of my routers. - How large is your coverage area? - All five boroughs. - All five? - Yes. Installing that many antennas would surely raise some suspicion. That's just it. They didn't have to install them. The antennas were already there. VHF television antennas. You can still find them on most rooftops in the city. It's been too long, John. What have you been up to? It's, uh, complicated. Well, now, that is an unexpected development. What can I do for you, detective? I'm looking for information on a gang called the Brotherhood. They kidnapped a kid and I want him back. Sorry to say I don't know much about this Brotherhood. It's run by a guy named Dominic. We haven't met yet. Do you know why they took the kid? They're squeezing his old man to build some kind of communications network the cops can't tap. They gave him a deadline. Midnight. - Or they'll kill his son. - Why midnight? Might have to do with someone called the Whale. I heard they're bringing him in for a meeting. The Whale isn't a person, John. It's a shipment of heroin. Four times a year, a truck comes up from Mexico. It's driven to a location. Usually a house. And for one night, the most protected house in the city. And there it's cut and packaged for couriers waiting to deliver it all along the eastern seaboard. HR used to handle the Whale. But since their demise, the cartels struggled to find a reliable partner. Could be Dominic creating his own opportunity. Ambitious and smart. Reminds me of me in my youth. A little advice, detective. Maybe steer clear of this Dominic. I'm afraid I can't do that. Which brings me to the other reason I'm here. I'd like to hire you. Well, I think I may have found a way to fix your network. - How? - I've written a firmware patch that should allow the nodes to handle an increased number of connections. I'm uploading it now. It's working. The network is up. You did it. Heh. No, you did, Mr. Hasan. You took an obsolete and forgotten technology and created a modern invisible communications network. I just need it to get Ben back. Then we have little time to waste. - Yeah? - It's Ali. The network is up. You can use it. That's good. Guess all you needed was the right motivation, huh? I gave you what you wanted. - Now give me back my son. - Relax, old man. You're gonna get him. But right now I'm in the middle of something. Sit tight. I'll be in touch. What? Hello? - Now what? - Now we call John. You put a lot of trust in your friend. I do. In all the time I've known him, he's never let me down. - Hello? - It's me. I'm borrowing the gang's mesh network. I'm sending you the location of the node they're connected to. Should be within a few hundred feet. I'm on my way. I'll let Shaw know. John. Remember to be careful. Just like old times, huh, Finch? Hardly, detective. The network's up. Dominic says he wants everyone rolling out in 30 minutes. What about the kid? As soon as we're done, we'll take him back to his pops. Then we throw them both in the river. Shaw, you in position? Yeah, at least until the owners come home from dinner. All right, I got eyes on. Copy. Stand by. Now, just remember, Reese. You're N.Y.P.D. You go all Rambo, I won't be there to bail you out this time. I'm a reformed man, Shaw. Following the rules and keeping a low profile. Let's go. We've got a dozen cars moving out. Every brick, every borough, tonight. Look out! That's your idea of a low profile? What the hell? What's going on? Beats me. Appears to be some kind of traffic accident. Elias says hello. Looks like a gang dispute over drugs. The SUV was coming from that house. This gives me probable cause to take a closer look. Got your back, detective. Go check it out. Anybody comes near this place, kill them. Bag it all up. We're moving out. Yo, you see something, shoot it. Took care of your welcoming party. They didn't look too friendly. Reese, your buddies in blue are getting close. I have to find Ben. He's gone. So is Link. I got him. They went out the back. I can't get a clear shot. Me again. Time's up. Good luck, Reese. Down on the ground! Finally. It's good to see you guys. Riley. Narcotics. - John? - Put Ali on. - Hello? - Dad? Ben. Are you all right? - Did they hurt you? - I'm okay. - They destroyed the store. - Doesn't matter. You're all right. That's all that matters. It was never about the store. - But they'll come back. - So we'll run off. We are the store, Ben. You and me. Just come home. - Whoa, whoa. - Meg Watkins, Homeland Security. What happened here? Gang war over drugs, ma'am. Gangs? I don't think so. Ma'am? I think I know why the machine chose this time to resurface. It wanted you to help the number, but it also wanted the number to help you. That's Ali's mesh network. What about the Brotherhood? I expect they believe the N.Y.P.D. confiscated it. But just to be safe, I've augmented these phones with a rolling encryption algorithm. You and Sameen will be able to communicate without anyone else listening. Including Samaritan. It's not just about the numbers, Harold. It's about survival. Be safe, John. Bean Didn't teach you knots in Girl Scouts? Are you checking up on me? I worry about you, Sameen. I also have a black tie dinner tonight, and I need a new polish. Something bold. Oh, and you should check your calendar. I think you have a coffee date. No way. The machine stuck me in this retail hell. There's no way I'm letting it near my love life. She has a reason for everything. Even if sometimes it requires you to act like a well-adjusted member of society. Trust her. Hey. What are you doing? I.T., dude. Just setting up your partner's computer. Whoa, what do you mean? What partner? Some hotshot just made a big bust. Got promoted from Narcotics. He can tell you all about it. - Detective. - You? You guys know each other? We've met. All set. Make yourself at home. Welcome to the 8th. Sameen? - Romeo? - I've been looking for a good match. Thought you might not be interested. Just careful. Us too. I hear you're looking for some real work. We need a good wheelman. Interested? Absolutely.
We are being watched. The government has a secret system. A machine that spies on you every hour of every day. I designed the machine to detect acts of terror, but it sees everything. Violent crimes involving ordinary people. The government considers these people irrelevant. We don't. Hunted by the authorities, we work in secret. You will never find us. But victim or perpetrator, if your number's up, we'll find you. I hope you like your eggs room temperature. And mildly congealed. Sorry Harold, gotta cancel. The job may be a cover, but the last minute paperwork's real. Understood. It seems a shame to waste decent food. Why don't you ask your new number to keep you company. New what? Claire Mahoney, sophomore at Oberlin College in Ohio. Checked into the motel next door two nights ago. According to her credit card eats most of her meals at that diner including the one she just charged. You lured me here to assign me your latest number? When I gave you a secure phone network, this wasn't what I had in mind. We're no longer co-workers, John. But Claire Mahoney's not just another number. In fact, she's right up your alley. Math major, 4.0 GPA. Lots of mathematics majors are studious enough to achieve perfect grade point averages. But how many of them become chess grandmasters at the age of 16? She played three different computer systems at the same time and won. But in the last 48 hours she's trespassed, broken into cars Sometimes teens act out in the big city. And sometimes they buy a 9 mm from a gun show on their way here. I don't know why a college student needs a firearm but I think Professor Whistler can figure it out. The fact that I am a professor is why I should not intervene. How many times do I have to remind you our covers come first? At least your cover doesn't come with a partner. All open homicides in our docket. Captain wants you brought up to speed by morning. Welcome aboard, Detective Riley. I make no promises, John. There are other matters I'm attending to. Why don't you enlist Miss Shaw? Because she has a complicated cover of her own. Thirty seconds tops. Keep the engine running. Kiss, kiss to you too. Whatever this is, you have 29 seconds. Just checking in. Your job and all. Skip the orientation. I've got this. - No burning questions? - Just one. Why? These covers are supposed to make us look ordinary. - So why would the machine make me - A criminal? Criminals are ordinary, Sameen. Every city's got them. - Thirteen seconds. - Only two mistakes you can make that'll put you on anyone's radar. Number one, getting caught. Getting caught? If I apply even half of my skills in training You'll be making mistake number two drawing too much attention. You can be a good thief, just not too good. Shoot for a B-plus. - Thanks for the rousing pep talk. - That's what I'm here for. Response time's under two minutes, let's move. All right, let's see how fast you are. My pleasure. Ordinary my ass. Got you. A nautilus shell? So that's the problem. All the classes I want are full. Professor, are you listening to me? Can I see your current class schedule? We're sorry, the number that you've dialed is not a working number. Not sure who you'd be calling when one of your students needs you. Oh, it's nothing. - An issue with a math major. - Ugh. Math is the worst. Manipulating numbers? If I wanna add, subtract, or multiply, I'll let my phone do it. It's not a phone number it's multiplication. - What are you doing now? - Manipulating numbers. GPS coordinates. Uh Ah. Um Suppose I speak to the dean on your behalf? That would work. Thank you. Another nautilus. You playing too? Playing? You're cheating off me. Is that it? It's not gonna work. You can't beat me. I'm going to win. Win what? I have no idea what you're talking about. Then what are you doing here? You've been tracking me, haven't you? - This ends now. Understand? - Yes. - But I'm not tracking you. I'm here to help. - No, you're not. - You'll sabotage me and leave me behind. - I won't leave you behind. Fine. Welcome to keep playing. I'm gonna have a head start. Help! This man's got a gun. Please don't hurt me. - You're making a mistake. - N.Y.P.D. Detective Riley. This man is wanted in conjunction with a case of mine. - I'll take him into custody. - Like hell you will. What about my window? I'm sure this gentleman will be happy to pay for it. Won't he? We'll take that. That should cover it. Book him, detective. Need I remind you that under our newfound oversight my income is no longer unlimited. I do appreciate your timing. For what it's worth, Claire seems to think she's playing a game. I can't tell if it's real or just in her mind. Sounds like you're working this number after all. I'm working a puzzle, John. That's all she is? A puzzle? A puzzle that doesn't want my help, or anyone else's for that matter. I suggest that we heed her advice and leave this one alone. What are you doing? Detective Riley promised those guys he'd arrest you. I don't wanna get flagged for suspicious behavior. - Our covers come first, remember? - Oh, dear. No, I assure you that our conversation will remain confidential. Thank you for your time. Could we dispense with the formalities? Do you think? I'm just protecting our covers. Sure it was okay to make the call to Claire's professor on that cell? Even if I weren't inside a car with the windows rolled up all Samaritan would've heard just now was two fellow professors discussing a student. Suffice it to say, Claire's history of instability is longer than 48 hours. How much longer? A year since she stopped chess and started skipping class. And though her advisor couldn't legally say I gathered that her behavior culminated in a suicide attempt. Whatever triggered it resulted in Claire taking a semester off. She's just returned to school this fall. I'll request her personal information. Try to find out what caused it. But N.Y.P.D. research isn't known for their speed. Well, that's unfortunate. You may have received Claire's number because she's a danger to herself. She pulled a gun on you, Harold. - She's more likely a threat to others. - Whichever theory is correct find Claire before she does more damage. - Could use help tracking her down. I have an errand to run. You'll have to bring your partner. If I get called out, Fusco goes too, you know. I wasn't referring to him. Claire's a math major. Either she has a thing for the Soviet theater or she needs a place to hide a backup hard drive. Excuse me. What are you doing here? Detective John Riley, N.Y.P.D. Something happen to my daughter? - You're Claire's father? - Douglas Mahoney. School told me Claire left two days ago. Credit card company said she booked here, so I flew in from Ohio. Did she mention why she was coming to New York? No, she won't return my calls. Then I get here and find a detective and a police dog. Please tell me she's okay. Claire was a witness to an act of vandalism this morning. No one was hurt. Thank goodness. Please, detective, if you find Claire You'll be the first to know. My captain calling. Okay. - Yes, captain. - Nice to hear I've been promoted. I found something to show you in person. Meet you at your office in 20 minutes. Claire has a backup hard drive? Which she was keeping hidden. Whatever's on her laptop, she doesn't wanna lose it. What do you see when you look at this picture of Claire? An unstable college student staring at street art. I thought as much myself until I realized it isn't graffiti at all. It's a variation on a Bongard puzzle. This particular type of puzzle presents two sets of diagrams. The diagrams in the first set share a common feature. The blocks never overlap with the curved lines. Conversely in the second set, the blocks do touch the curves. There's an additional common element. There's a different number of blocks in each diagram. Code cracking. Sometimes you forget I was an international spy. Fair enough. Now, using this pattern I can fill in the blank space with the only number of blocks left out, which is three. Thus, solving the puzzle creating a sort of three-pronged arch. May I? There's your three-pronged arch, Harold. Glen Span Arch in Central Park. If you wanna talk to Claire about this game she's playing you'll find her there. And perhaps the next puzzle. - Still don't want to tag along? - No, I'm more useful here. If Miss Mahoney is half as smart as she seems this hard drive is gonna be difficult to crack. Careful, Finch, you might have to admit you're actually working this number. - Claire's an exception. - Exceptions become the rule. Especially when you start using their first names. No sign of Claire at the arch. Perhaps her hard drive will be more forthcoming. Just about managed to crack the encryption code that she wrote. You know, you were right, John. She is exceptional. You've just received an e-mail from N.Y.P.D. research regarding your request for personal information on Claire Mahoney. - What's it say? - Quite a lot of information. It'll take some time to sift through it. - Finch, I found Claire. - Where? In the middle of the street. Looks like you were right, Harold. She does have a death wish. Why did you do that? It's my job. So is finding out why you were standing in traffic. You wouldn't understand. Well, maybe your father will. - I called him in case we found you here. - Claire. I'm so glad they found you. That man is not my father. John, I've scanned the N.Y.P.D. research records on Claire. Her parents died in a car accident last year. She's telling the truth. Run. - Come on, let's go. - John, are you okay? - Where's Claire? - I told her to run. Looks like the game she's playing isn't just real. It's deadly. John, I'm at the arch. - Where are you? - Looking for Claire. She may still be in the woods hiding from Dad. - Who would pose as Claire's dead father? - From their tactics, I'm guessing Blackwater type, private military contractors. Why would a private military contractor go after a college student? Unless it has something to do with a game that she's playing. I'm sending notes from Claire's backup drive to your phone. The game started with a post on an obscure message board. "If you seek enlightenment, be the first to walk through the chambers." What's the spiral shell? Chambered nautilus. Claire realized there was data hidden in the image and managed to extract it. Instructions to hack an encrypted network and steal a particular file. Whatever's on it is required to win the game. Setting a pretty high bar. Indeed. And this isn't the game's first iteration. There have been at least two others, In cities as far flung as Tokyo and Paris. - You know who's behind it? Could be one of any number of powerful and potentially dangerous entities. CIA, rogue hackers, whoever's behind it is secretive. And no one seems to know what happens when you get to the end. Stop, this is it. Wait here. Think I may have found one of Claire's fellow competitors. - Nice glasses. - Optical head-mounted display. Among other things, it takes pictures. Excuse me. I think I'm lost. - I wonder if you - Stay back! Not exactly an altruist. But he gave me one thing. The spot where I would have to be to find the next puzzle. This must be where you found Claire. - You see anything interesting? - Trees. Lamp post. Banners. Oh, wait. It's a nautilus. And the street lights are more than just a border. It's braille. The lights are the equivalent of the tactile dots. The message reads one hundred and 84th and 3rd. Claire is likely making her way there. - On my way. - Let me know when you find her. Still wanna pretend you're not playing? I saw you in the park. Trust me, Claire, I have no desire to cheat off you or sabotage your chances of winning. Is that why you stole my hard drive? Hand it over. Or do I have to take it? Pathetic. If you can't solve the puzzles on your own you shouldn't be here. I wasn't going to be. As much as a friend of mine hoped otherwise. But something on the drive helped change my mind. - My notes? - The eulogy for your parents. The young woman who wrote those words would never shoot me over a game. She values life too much. If that's what you think then you don't know me at all. - What's the status? - Alarms disabled. Cut through the vault, you're home free. - Let's go. - Have fun, boys. Speaking of boys. Hope I'm not interrupting, Miss Shaw, but I could use some help with a new number. - New number? - This particular number is involved in activities the implications of which are extraordinary. Perhaps global. - Can you meet me? - Sure. I'm clocking out anyway. New computer? Isn't that a week's salary for you? Small price to pay for safety from Samaritan. Especially when hacking security camera feeds. Security feeds? You wanna fill me in? A dangerous game is being played throughout the city. I'm trying to find the game master. I've accessed the feeds from a security camera whose field includes a lamp post where one of the game's puzzles was posted. By scrolling back through the archived footage I hope to identify who put it up. There. Toby's Estate Coffee. The game master is a barista? Right across the street. So this guy likes to play games, huh? Well, so do I. I remind you I'm not a proponent of violence. We imply it. We may not have to use it. Soy milk? I can't stand the stuff. Go cow or go home. - Now someone's got a few questions for you. - Someone? I'd like to inform you I've disabled the video streams back here. So no one can see or hear or help. Surprisingly lax security for someone of your interests. - Who are you? - The guy who tells me when to let go. This game, what's its ultimate purpose? - Work alone? With a team? - I don't know what you're talking about. How many fingers does it take to make an espresso? You see this, or do you need me to staple it to your eyeball? The poster? It's not mine. It came in an e-mail. - Sent by whom? - It was anonymous. Please. It told me when and where to put up the poster. I did it. A thousand bucks was wired to my account. That's all I know. I swear. I'm going to need to see that e-mail. And I'm gonna need you to make yourself useful. Tall latte. And you better not give me a decaf. Harold, I'm at 184th and 3rd. Only place open is a biker bar. Been John, have you managed to find Claire? I found her. Brave girl walking into a place like this. As usual, she's staring at something. I have no idea what. That makes two of us. I've been trying to trace the source of an e-mail that I believe was sent by the creator of the game. The results are nothing short of baffling. The e-mail appears to have no point of origin. It simply materialized in the recipient's inbox. Excuse me. Whoa, whoa, whoa. I don't want you to leave until I get you a drink. Nice offer. Too bad that guy's about to steal your wallet. What? No I wasn't. Now I'm gonna do the same thing to your arms. Excuse me, does this thing work? - Unh! - Hey! What the? Yup. Works just fine. Don't move. Really? That's a good choice. Now I'm gonna give you another one. You're not equipped to be here, not in this place not in this game you're playing. So either you choose to quit playing or I arrest you to keep you safe. So, what's it gonna be? - Quit. - Glad we could have this talk. Nautilus eyes. Found the next puzzle, Finch. Heading after Claire. Harold, I got two guys across the street wearing comms. Claire's got a welcoming party. - Oh, dear. - What's going on? I'm tracing this e-mail, but something just hacked back with incredible force. My hard drive's being torn apart. They're tracing our location. What are you gonna do? Drive. - PMC's are making a move. I'm heading in. - John, you can't interfere. I lost control of my computer to a brute-force attack so swift and surgical there can only be one source. And I have no doubt the same entity created the game. We've gone up against hackers before. You don't understand, Mr. Reese. The creator of the game isn't a hacker. It isn't even human. It's Samaritan. Claire's in danger. She may be playing Samaritan's game, but we still gotta help her. No. Claire's every move is being watched by 1000 digital eyes. They aren't Samaritan operatives, they're military. It doesn't matter, John. Until I can understand Samaritan's intent with the game, and what it wants with Claire I won't risk your life and Sameen's. Damn it, Harold. It is still my job to save people. Don't let your frustration affect your judgment. He's gonna let his frustration affect his judgment. I'll take it from here. You're under arrest, pal. - You're no cop. - I am. Just not a very good one. And I've got some questions for you. What's wrong, Harold? You and the big lug have another little spat? We need to concentrate on a larger problem. Do you recognize this? A nautilus shell. One of nature's many examples of a logarithmic spiral. And a symbol for a very dangerous competition going on across the globe every 27 days. A competition? Sounds invigorating. Samaritan is behind it. I need to know why. She's not saying. - But I can guess Samaritan's recruiting. - Recruiting? What kind of person would pique its interest? What kind of person are you worried it might take? Her name is Claire. And what's so special about this Claire? She's a chess grandmaster who's defeated three separate Al's. She'll walk right out in traffic to break a code. She's fearless. And she has nothing left to lose. Funny. Take away the chess, I could've sworn you were describing someone else. You. You wanna know why Samaritan wants Claire? Because she'll do anything it asks. No questions. Frightening thought. You're trying to figure out if you can compromise your carefully-crafted cover identity to help save poor Claire. Or step aside so that we stay alive to help others. You really want me to ask the machine, Harold? - You know what she's gonna say. - No, what's that? What you taught her. That humans must make their own choices. You have to figure it out yourself. Larry! I told you, stay calm and I'll grant you back seat privileges. Are you abducting someone? It's a long story. - You're a flight attendant? - Just for today. - Larry's my pilot. - Where are you going? She hasn't told me yet. I'm hoping somewhere tropical. Torture me all you want, you won't get answers. I know. - So, what are you going to do to us? - Nothing. You don't talk, I book you. - Cushy holding cell your idea of punishment? - No. Punishment comes later. Private military corporations aren't authorized to conduct missions on U.S. soil. So I'll arrest you. But when your employers find out they'll send someone to silence you for good. So I'm gonna ask you once. Why are you after Claire Mahoney? She hacked Silverpool's network. Silverpool is the name of the private military corporation you work for? And a college student hacked your network? - Was it part of the game? - What game? Hack a private military corporation's network, trust me, it's no game. - What did Claire take? - It's above my pay grade. If Silverpool's conducting an illegal mission to kill a college student she must have taken something that could shut it down. Maybe even get you all thrown in prison for war crimes. - I told you I don't know. - I'll take a guess. Documentation of what you guys did in Tikrit. Possibly numbers of civilian casualties. Yeah, you caught the three of us, fine. But we're just the first wave. Silverpool's not gonna stop attacking until they find out how much that girl knows. Then they'll kill her. Hey, where you going? To work. Hey. I hope you're getting a jump on that domestic. Three O R C. Never heard of that gang. That's because they've only existed for 48 hours. What is that, some kind of puzzle? Like a jumble? - I'm not half bad at those. - Half bad doesn't mean good. Well, here's your problem. It's not a word. Haven't you noticed none of the letters go past G? They're not letters, they're musical notes. - "New York, New York." - Nobody compares to Frank. Whoever made that puzzle's got good taste. Three O R C. "New York, New York." Weird theme song for a biker gang. It's because it's not a theme song, it's an address. That's Top of the Rock. It's the observation deck. That's where Claire's going. Target has arrived. I've got her in sight. - I've got a clear shot. - Copy that. Fire when ready. - Nice rifle. - Unh! Shame you left it unattended. Ladies and gentlemen. The next elevator to the Top of the Rock observation deck will be leaving momentarily. Going up? I just gotta wait for my friend. Room for one more? The code to the Silverpool documents. Silverpool is willing to kill you for stealing those. And you're not even looking at them. To you, they're just a key to the code that's etched in this rail. I don't need to read the reports to know what they say. Civilian casualties, meaningless suffering Nothing any of them can do to stop it. Claire, I came here for a reason. To try to convince you to make the right decision. And what decision is that? Forfeit the game. Because it's not worth winning. - And it's not just a game. - Then what is it? It's a recruiting tool. For a very dangerous force. Believe me when I tell you, if you win this game you will be walking into grave danger. Aren't we all in grave danger all the time? Last Thanksgiving I got a phone call telling me both my parents were dead. That some old man had T-boned them at an intersection. No way to tell whose fault it was. Not that it would have brought them back. Your parents' death is a random accident. You have no reason. No explanation. - No one to blame. - Okay. Don't say you're sorry. That's what everyone said. That, and if I needed something give them a call. In that case, you needn't worry. I have no intention of giving you my phone number. At least you're honest. Everyone else There was no meaning behind what anyone said because there was no meaning behind my parents' death. It was just something that happened for no reason. Is that what you're looking for, Miss Mahoney? Meaning? Well it's the only thing worth looking for. And now I found it. Or it found me. Either way, I reached out and took a chance. And I'm going to win. The Octagon Building. I know what it's like to look for a definitive answer even when you know that none exists. You're trying to make sense of this tragedy. You're reaching for meaning, but the wrong thing is reaching back. This force can certainly give your life structure, order meaning. But it wouldn't be the meaning you want. - It's the only thing I've got. - Please, Claire if you leave here I can't protect you. The men from Silverpool will track you down. Or the force that runs the game will, which will be worse. But if you come with me now, I might be able to help you. Why would you wanna help me? Because I'd like to think there's meaning too. Harold? Are you okay? John. I wasn't expecting you. I would've been here sooner. Had elevator trouble. Where's Claire? She no longer wanted our protection. We did everything we could to save her. I suppose we could've locked her up and thrown away the key. Maybe we should have. - She would have found her way out. - So we just let her go, alone? I've given her all the facts I can. It's up to her to make her own decision. Claire will figure it out for herself. The whole building's a nautilus. W, T, C, H, Y, S. Switch. Hello? Switch. What? It doesn't work. Give us the file. If I do, will you let me go? If I said yes, would you believe me? It doesn't matter. This whole thing I guess it didn't mean anything after all. Heh. Looks like Silverpool is gonna have to answer for their crimes after all. Who could've leaked those documents Claire stole to the press so quickly? In this case I'm afraid I can take no credit. Although there is a wrinkle. It appears that Silverpool was developing a new threat identification network. A secret system to spy on Americans in the name of keeping us safe. But with this leak that network is as good as dead. Along with any chance it had to compete with any other such system. Including the one that created the nautilus puzzles. Claire wasn't just being drawn into a game. She was being used to get hold of a file only a human agent could access. All to take down Silverpool. And eliminate a potential rival. Not that Claire was ever going to question her mission. I checked this morning. She hasn't turned up at her dorm room, or any of her classes. Whatever fate was waiting for her at the end of the game, it must have found her. Sorry, Harold. I never should have dragged you back into this. Appreciate your concern, John, but just as Claire has made her choice I've made mine. Follow me. Forgive me I've only just finished wiring it for power. - Power? - Power indeed. The third rail. It's a remarkably potent source and nearly impossible for the city to trace. A subway repair line. Built in the '30s and used until it was cut off by the city's new main water line. Abandoned for decades. Antiques. Like us, Harold? I suppose they are a bit like us. Living underground resisting the new age that's trying to make us irrelevant. And like us they still work. How did you find this place? We may have underestimated Samaritan but Samaritan has underestimated the machine. It led me here to help us fight back. And by tapping into underground fibers and spoofing half of the web addresses on the west side, I created A secure way to get online. This is a new base of operations. A safe haven. I'd originally intended it for you and Miss Shaw but in light of recent developments - Finch, are you telling me you're - Back? I see you deciphered my Byzantine directions. You are back, aren't you, Harold? Or did you invite us down here for decorating tips? The truth is I couldn't stand by and watch my friends risking everything doing work that I, myself, began. We're not just fighting for people's lives anymore. If we lose and Samaritan wins, the world as we know it will vanish. And no one will even notice it until it's far too late. - So we push back. - Indeed. And we do it together. Glad to know that you have our backs, Harold. Many thanks, John. But we haven't time for pleasantries, we have to get to work.
We are being watched. The government has a secret system. A machine that spies on you every hour of every day. I designed the machine to detect acts of terror, but it sees everything. Violent crimes involving ordinary people. The government considers these people irrelevant. We don't. Hunted by the authorities, we work in secret. You will never find us. But victim or perpetrator, if your number's up, we'll find you. Left over there. Now, if you take a look at your right N.Y.P.D. - Oh, my God. What happened? - What the hell are you doing? - Catching the bad guys. - We had three RMPs coming. You know, a little thing called backup? Sometimes we wait for it instead of shooting people and causing mayhem. It's hot as hell out here. Figured I'd save us time. Listen, you're not a lone wolf anymore, pal. You're a cop. You need to start respecting the job. - Rules and regulations come with that badge. - Like you haven't bent those rules before? I don't anymore. You know who else doesn't? The new captain. Well, that was novel. Shooting a perp in front of hundreds of witnesses? Subtle. The guy's probably gonna need crutches for the rest of his life. What is that, the third of fourth guy you knee-capped this month, Riley? Fourth, ma'am. I suppose I should give you points for being such a good shot. You were supposed to be working the Bowman homicide. What the hell were you doing chasing a druggie smash-and-grabber in midtown? - We were working a developmental. - Into what, an early grave? We got Cis all over town. Those Cis help you close any cases yet? The Compstat numbers are an embarrassment. Homicides are up 20 percent in the last two months. I'm ready to fire me. What's going on, gentlemen? It's the heat wave. Tempers flare. The city's taking a turn for the worse. We need to do a better job of getting out in front of this thing. I need to know, are you working with me, or against me? We just want to do our job. So get your asses out there and show me what you can really do. Yes, ma'am. Hey, you, in the fancy suit. You're part of a team now. No more narco cowboy nonsense. And try not to shoot anyone for a few days. You hear me? Loud and clear. You heard what she said. - We've got work to do. - Relax, Lionel. Listen, Mr. Fabulous. I've got a mortgage, alimony, and a kid going to college in a few years. You see this place? This is my livelihood. And it's filled with too much bureaucracy and not enough direct action. This is my real life, detective. Not some superhero cover identity. Okay. - I hear you. - Yeah. No, I'll work on it. I've spent the past two decades learning how not to color inside the lines. May take me a second or two to figure it out. - Riley. - Detective Riley, we have a new number. Now's not the best time, professor. I'm at work. Circumventing suspicious employers is part of our new challenge, John. Please, hurry. Go get it, Bear. Go get it. Go get it. Go get him, Bear. Go get him. Miss Shaw, please. He doesn't need any more encouragement. Don't you want him to catch it? Not if it involves finding rat entrails in our new office, no. Bear, here. While the machine may have given us a place of operation it didn't account for our financial situation. I'm afraid your meals and rent are going to start coming out of your actual paychecks. Good thing I'm working two jobs. The makeup counter pays like crap. Do you know how expensive a nice pair of heels are? What a racket. Until I can access some auxiliary funds we have no choice but to commit to our identities' socio-economic status. Copy that. Ramen and Two-Buck Chuck for the rest of the month. We'll need to make this fast. I'm on the new captain's hit list. - And my partner's. - What, did you shoot somebody else? You have to be more careful, John. The identities the machine created for us are precious commodities not to be taken for granted. It was hot out. Never mind. Let's hear about that new number. Andre Cooper. Born and raised in the Bronx. Former longshoreman turned professional social liaison. - A social what? - A professional wingman. He's the guy people hire when they can't pick up women. Why leave a union gig to teach desperate men pick-up tricks? I suggest we get close to Cooper's operation and find out. You mean go undercover as a client? Not it, Finch. Oh, don't worry, Reese. Harold and I decided that we needed somebody with a few more people skills. And a little less hair gel. - I have a phone. - Not that one. Use this. Where the hell is this guy? Relax, Fusco. He's probably just some con artist who's in over his head. Have some fun with it. You're not the one pretending to need professional help to get a date. Then, when was the last time you had a date, Lionel? Looks like professional help just arrived. How you doing? Fusco. Your friend Harold didn't warn me what I was dealing with. Could've been more upfront. - Excuse me? - He bought you a two-day package. This is more like a five-day situation. Maybe seven. You're in insurance? - Yeah, that's right. - Like an online business? - Look, I don't need to take this crap. - All right. Come on. Sit down. Think about meeting women like you're selling yourself, all right? They need to feel like you've made an effort. That you didn't just roll out of bed and throw on yesterday's suit with a new shirt. Crap, that is yesterday's suit. I'm here to teach you how to earn a woman's affections, not trick her. And you, my friend, you need to do better. - Oh, yeah? - Yeah. Because if this is you dressing to impress, well, I am not. - The ladies aren't gonna be either. - He's got a point. What's wrong with what I'm wearing? I don't know where to start. Faded color, the fire-proof fabric, that sad tie. If you're going for the least modern man in this room, you have won. I've won a few boxing matches too. Wanna go a few rounds? Come on. Let's get to work. Where we going? Shopping- I hope you have a decent line of credit. I think I know who's gonna kill our guy. - Who? - Me. What may I do for you, Miss Groves? It's very I think the word you're looking for is "Spartan." Yes. And well hidden. She gave you and the kids a nice new home. I'll ask again. - The machine needs a favor. - No. She knew you'd doubt her motives. Let her make it up to you. She promises it will be worth something to all three of you. What is it that the machine wants? I don't know yet. She gave me very little to go on. She can't talk to me the way she used to with Samaritan watching. But I do know where to start. Excellent. A wild-goose chase. I'd like to think of it more as a scavenger hunt. - Where's your partner? - Um Re-interviewing suspects on a case. How's that working out for you? Pfft. How's it look? One patch is not enough. Yeah, I could have told you that from your chewed-up fingernails. That's a pretty good parlor trick. You putting those skills to work in the field? I got a lead on Wendy Montgomery's murder. Realtor was shot walking home from work. Looked like a mugging. Yeah. Her husband was the prime suspect, but we didn't have any real leads. Well, we do now. He's been e-mailing with a known hit man. How did you get these? You know those developmentals I've been working on? You need to know more than that? If you want to play fast and loose, fine. But make sure you nail him with something solid. Copy that, ma'am. Finch, where are you hiding? Did you discover anything new about Andre Cooper? Well, I scrubbed through his inbox and I found some e-mails between Cooper and a client's ex-wife. - They were sleeping together. - Not the best business decision. Client didn't think so either. So he sent a bunch of e-mails threatening to kill our wingman. So Mr. Cooper's romantic entanglements have put him in danger. That's what I thought until I got into his voicemails. Our boy was subpoenaed 10 days ago. - What for? - Investigation into a missing gun shipment from the New York Container Terminal, Cooper's old workplace. That container disappeared the same time our boy swapped his well-paying dock-worker gig for his sketchy career helping socially incompetent men pick up women. Sounds like a solid avenue of investigation. Yeah. I could really use an extra hand here, Finch. Well, that's why we recruited Detective Fusco. Yeah, uh, Fusco's gonna be a bit more preoccupied than we thought. I don't know. This just ain't me. I mean, who wears cuff links anyway? How do you put these things on? You're right, cuff links and tailored pants are for suckers that just wanna meet women. Maybe we could get you a track suit and a Barcalounger. - What's wrong with a tracksuit? - Are you a track star, Lionel? I didn't think so. Try harder. - Does this stuff really work? - Trust me. - You think I roll out of bed looking like this? - I don't know. Women aren't lining up to date a guy who alternates football jerseys for his wardrobe. - Easy, pal. - Don't you love when a girl fixes her hair up? Wears that hot dress just for you? You think four-inch heels are comfortable? - Never really gave it any thought. - They probably hurt like hell. But women wear them anyway. Why? Because guys like it. So let's give the ladies a little respect. Show them that you can make an effort too. No. Once you have their attention, it's up to you to keep it. - You gonna show me how to do that too? - One thing at a time, Don Juan. Why don't we start with you losing those Florsheims? You look like a cop. - When's the last time you had a girlfriend? - None of your business. See, I can't help you if you don't open up. I'm like a therapist in that way. No thanks, doc. Not interested. - Her name was Rhonda. - All right. We went out a bunch of times, but she just kind of faded away. - These things never work out anyway. - See, that's your problem there. - You're cynical. - Not cynical. I just know people are terrible. Oh, man. A cynical misanthrope. I don't know what they did to you at that insurance job, but it made you sour. And women do not like sour. Don't know how to break it to you, but I'm not a unicorn and rainbows kind of guy. I'm not saying that you need to be naive. Just a little less pessimistic. Don't see a ring on your finger. What's your story? I'm not in a mental state to be in a relationship right now. Those who can't do, teach. Right? No. - So how'd you get in the business? - I'm good with people. That still remains to be seen. Um, I was always helping my friends meet girls. Once my buddy asked me to help him on the side, said he'll pay. A business is born. Two years later, he's getting married. So have some hope. I got hope, that this speech is gonna end soon. Keep living in the past, you're gonna wind up alone. Can't run away from your past either. Mr. Egret, it's an honor. I've read a lot about you, sir. Your tour in the Gulf. Your work with Blackwater. Who's the hottie? She's none of your concern. An AT4 anti-tank shoulder launched munition system with 84 mm rounds and a firing range of 300 meters. Nice piece of machinery. Fifty-thousand as agreed. It's nice doing business with a legend. Hope we work together again someday. Mr. Egret, you mind telling us what you plan to do with the missile? Just out of curiosity. You know, I would mind. Very much. - What are we gonna do with this? - I don't know yet. I am truly enjoying this new side of you, Harold. It's very unexpected. Dare I ask how you procured that amount of money? It involved some breaking and entering. I take it these men will just continue to sell munitions on the black market. Have a little faith, Harry. Put the case down. Hands in the air! See'? She's still doing her job, Harold. Always watching. Time to go. Okay, here we go. Don't speak unless spoken to. I'll handle the intros. - Okay, but - No talking. Listening. Make eye contact. Be polite. Don't be a doormat. Smile, but not too much. You don't want to look like a crazy person. But most of all have fun, Lionel. All right. Sorry. Well, that went poorly. Although I have heard in some cultures, spilling drinks on a woman is a mating ritual. - I was starting not to hate you. - You gotta relax, man. You're treating this like some kind of a job. Guess I'm a little rusty. You know her? No, but I will soon. - Hey, Mick. Wow, it's been - Almost a year. Mickey's an old friend from the docks. We've known each other a long time. Yeah, way before you'd ever come in a place like this. So true. So, what got you here? My cousin's staying at the hotel. Thought I'd come get a drink. Who's this guy? Client? This is Lionel. He's new. It was a gift from a friend. A guy I know. Hey, don't worry, killer. Andre actually hooked me up with my wife. He's the best pickup artist you'll ever meet. Hey, you live in midtown, right? Midtown east? - Yeah, that's right. - We gotta grab a meal sometime soon. It's great seeing you, man. Take care. - I saw that. - Oh, boy. Hey, pal. Checking out my girl? You know what, I didn't realize she was anyone's girl. Yeah, right. N.Y.P.D. You're cut off for the rest of the night. You understand me? Who the hell are you? Did you finish making your statement? I did. Do you have a statement? Like why you lied to me about what you do for a living? Am I under investigation, Lionel? Did you do something to warrant an investigation? No. Of course not. You're avoiding the question. - Fusco. - Hold up, Lionel. I think our number might be a perp after all. - What'd you find? - Open homicide in Red Hook on Milo Jacobs. He worked security on the docks up until nine months ago. Same time that gun shipment went missing. I've got phone calls here between Milo and Cooper. Maybe they stole that shipment together. Just my partner checking in. Well? I lied because cops don't hire wingmen. The guys find out, they'll bust my chops to my grave. Well, the day's not done. And your friend paid in advance, so - What? You want to keep going? - You're a hero. We should capitalize on that. I have another event we could catch. What's the worst that could happen? The chef's confession is on there. You got Wendy Montgomery's husband. Well done, Riley. - Mm-hm. - I won't ask about the eye. Where's your partner? I wanna congratulate him too. Fusco's taking the lead on another case. - What's next? - That car-dealership owner who got shot. He was embezzling money from his own company. You think his employees were in on it. I think they found out where he was hiding the money and killed him for it. Tapped into their credit reports. They've spent a lot of money since their boss's death. Do I wanna know how you got those credit reports? Bad morning? Ugh. My pocketbook still smells like cigarettes. Quitting has me edgy as hell. But it was either the patch or a hypnotherapist, and I don't believe in hippie nonsense. Maybe we can use that edginess of yours to our advantage. I'm intrigued. Tell me more. - I told you no more developmentals. - I was working up a lead. Your numbers are down, Riley. If you don't start closing more cases I'm gonna ship you off to Evidence lockup and find someone who can. I'm Detective Riley. Which one of you wants to go first? I've already been questioned. Didn't know anything then, don't know anything now. I heard a rumor Mr. Bowman had a bit of a temper. I also heard you were sick of him taking it out on you. Yeah, well, you'd be sick of it too. He'd scream at us if we didn't sell enough, or if we weren't pushing upgrades. Yeah, well, not everyone wants fog lights. My ballbuster of a captain out there, she is all over me about closing up this case before the end of the day. I'm just worried about my job, so, what do you say we make a deal? I don't know what you mean. - I don't know anything. - Come on, Lenny. You found out where Bowman was keeping the money and you killed him. - That's not true. - Sure it is. What I don't know is which one of you wants to make a deal with me first. What kind of deal? You help me close up this case, give me half the money and we'll make this all go away. Hell, we'll even make sure that Lenny takes the fall for it. Barry's gonna say it was all your idea. He's a liar. This was all Barry. Half? Half. Fine. But this all falls on Barry, not me, right? Does that work for you, captain? Looks like you closed another case, Riley. Keep it up, you'll get that set of steak knives. Most fun I've had in a while. Good game. - You too. - Love to celebrate, but you're on a roll It's a priority homicide. Came in from the Commissioner's Office. Illegal street vendor recanted his statement. Vendor's scared. Be scarier than the guy who made him clam up. Yes, ma'am. See, Lionel? Eye contact. Yeah, Lionel. Women's charities are a great way to meet ladies. You're outnumbered and it's for a good cause. - Isn't that a little tacky? - I prefer the word "strategic." Stop primping, gorgeous. Somebody's watching you. Lady by the silent auction. Great smile. What do we do? She's already done all the work for you. Now off you go. Are you feeling a little exposed having an anti-tank missile in the middle of Manhattan? Or is it just me? Samaritan won't be looking for a college professor with an AT4. - It's not Samaritan I'm worried about. - Then who? Homeland Security, N.Y.P.D., an errant meter maid. Egret? - And you are? - The frigging Dalai Lama. I'm Jerry. The guy who was sent by the other guy you contacted about the thing you're selling? You have a buyer for us? I thought Egret would be more, uh, bad-ass. I mean, you got that rep, you know? You don't look so tough. That's because I have only two modes, Jerry. Calm and furious. It's a rare person that sees the latter and lives to talk about it. Okay. Okay. I got you. Everyone relax now. Follow me. I like it too. I don't know what it is, but I like it. Heh-heh. Oh, come on, Fusco. Just ask her for her number already. We need to figure out if your new buddy is a killer. Wait a sec. Who's this guy? Longshoreman. Fusco, grab Andre and go out the back exit now. Um, I'm sorry. I have to go. What are you doing? Why didn't you get her number? You're in danger. We need to get you out now. Hey there. Wicked stomach cramps. Back up. - Mick, you don't know what you're doing. - I'm afraid you got that the other way around. Get him in. Bring them both. Go. Let's go. Move. You know, I went back to the art gallery. That fake security guard, he hightailed it out of there. They must want something from Andre, otherwise he'd already be dead. - Ungh. - Sorry. Mickey and Cooper must have stolen that shipment together. I bet someone double-crossed someone. We need to track Mickey's van. You're a cop now. Full access pass to Domain Awareness. Thanks to Big Brother, we can be watching too. This has been time-stamped 20 minutes ago. Let's move. I can't, Shaw. Captain Moreno handed me a priority homicide. - What do you think this is gonna be? - She's got me under a microscope. If she figures out who I really am, Samaritan will too, and we'll all be dead. Riley. Yes, ma'am. I'm on my way to interview the vendor now Well, he's been a little bit hard to find, ma'am. Fine. But I'm taking the dog. You want to tell me what you got me involved in? I'm sorry, Lionel. I thought Mickey was out of my life for good. What did you ass clowns do? Not me. Mickey. Some dealer named Dominic paid him off to disappear a container full of guns. He just deleted it out of the system. The DA suspects Mickey's involved. They want me to testify. I said I wouldn't. How come? You know how hard it is to turn your back on your friends because it's the right thing to do? Yeah. I know a little bit about that. Then you understand why I didn't say anything. What are you girls gossiping about? Andre was telling me what a moron you are for kidnapping a cop. Yeah, that came as a bit of a surprise. Since when are you hanging outwith cops? Lionel's a client, and he's a good man. - Let him go. - It's too late for that, buddy. Now, just tell me what you've been saying to the DA. I already told you. Nothing. I want to believe that. You've known me for 15 years. You're like a brother. - You know I'm telling the truth. - You were my brother. You abandoned me. Because you got greedy. You took an honest job and you turned it dirty. - I made a business deal. - Yeah. With a criminal street gang. - Now you got good men doing bad things. - Good men do bad things all the time. You're worse than those dealers, because you turned on your friends. - Like Milo. - I did what I had to do. Look, if you kill a cop, the feds are gonna come looking for you. No, they're gonna come looking for you. Because that is how I'm gonna set it up. Get them ready. I saw nothing. I told them. You were in Red Hook the night the victim died. We traced your cell. I wasn't even there. I'm not lying. What if I help your memory? Here's how this works. You remember something useful and I give you this envelope in exchange for one of these lovely handbags. These are genuine, right? Sell me this purse, and you get to start a new life. But first, you need to tell me what you saw. - Certain we can trust these men? - Trust them? Of course not. Can't trust anyone, Egret. What world are you living in? This is gonna be interesting. It's going to be a lot less interesting once we're dead, Miss Groves. Okay, Bear. On three. One, two Zoek, Bear. Zoek. I hired a friend to make sure this container never reaches its destination. Don't worry. You'll probably die of heat stroke before you drown. Let's go. The famous Mr. Egret. Seems you materialized, uh, out of nowhere. Now you are everywhere. How is that? I'm a very private person. Yes. I am as well. You're lucky you know my friend Jerry. We don't trust outsiders. One hundred fifty thousand. Would you like to count it? Mr. Egret and I are certain the money's all there. - No, I can't do this. - Harold. I'm sorry. This is no longer for sale. I thought you were a man of your word, Mr. Egret. Not if it involves selling a rocket launcher to the Mob. Any Mob. That happens to be a line I'm not willing to cross. She knows you so well, Harold. Now we get to kill two birds with one stone. Should we tie them up just in case? What was the point of all this, Miss Groves? How did this ridiculous journey help anyone? Let me show you. You're right. These cuff links are good for something. Neat trick. Who are you really, Lionel? A concerned third party. What now? I think your friend wasn't kidding about the heat stroke. There's no way we can bust out of here. - Hey! Hey! - Hey! Think anyone can hear us? What are you doing here? Me? What are you doing? I thought you were playing detective. That priority homicide traced back to our number. The guy selling knockoff handbags saw a dock worker kill their victim. That homicide you picked up was Milo Jacobs? That's our guy. Where is Fusco? Here somewhere. Bear, zoek. Mickey and his goons are still out there. You get Fusco and the pickup artist. I'm gonna go hunting. - Hey! - Hey! - Fusco? - We're in here. - Nice of you to show up. - Was about to close my third case of the day. I wanted to make sure I had a chance to brag about it. Mickey's still out there. I'm gonna get him. They never give you enough ammo. Look out, Lionel. Bear, heel. - Thanks for the backup. - Anytime. - Nice moves, wingman. - You too. Hey, guys. Give me a hand there, will you? Come on, you. I have you to thank for this lovely knockoff, Riley? Well, it wasn't my color. Heard your old one smelled like an ashtray. - Who are these mooks? - Latvian Mob. We got an anonymous phone call. Found them in a Chinatown sweatshop. Very strange case. They were all shot in the knees. If I didn't know better, I'd think it was your doing, Riley. Great work today, guys. You really managed to turn things around. - Thank you, captain. - Drinks on me tonight. I, uh I guess you figured out how to be a good cop after all. It's a process, Lionel. Listen, about those drinks tonight? I, uh I've got somewhere to be. Cooper came through on the dating front? Right over there. Thank you. - I'll be back, okay? - Okay. Hey. A club soda and a glass of Chardonnay, please. You spill your drink on her yet? That's a mating ritual in some cultures. I'm testifying against Mickey and his boys. You were right. You can't run from your past. At least not without getting shot at, right? Remember, eye contact, confidence. Make sure you're having fun. Andre, I got this. I know you do. But if you ever need a refresher course, you give me a call. Done. - Here you go. Hi. - Hi. Thank you. Welcome back. Our Latvian friends won't be needing these supplies anymore. This was the machine's plan? She believes in saving your irrelevant numbers, Harold. And while you can't access any of your old bank accounts right now things are looking up. Heh. The only way the machine could give us this kind of financial assistance was to do so in a way that Samaritan would never discover. Ill-gotten gains put to good use. Maybe it's time you give her a second chance. What'll we do with the missile? I'm sure we'll think of something.
We are being watched. The government has a secret system. A machine that spies on you every hour of every day. I designed the machine to detect acts of terror, but it sees everything. Violent crimes involving ordinary people. The government considers these people irrelevant. We don't. Hunted by the authorities, we work in secret. You will never find us. But victim or perpetrator, if your number's up, we'll find you. We got a problem, yo. Dominic wants a new network up and running in the next 48. What can I do for you, detective? I'm looking for information on a gang called the Brotherhood. It's run by a guy named Dominic. We haven't met yet. Ambitious and smart. Maybe steer clear of this Dominic. The deal's going down. The Armenians are already here. Watch your back. In case things get jumpy. Are you at the school, Mr. Reese? Academics really aren't my thing. Maybe you should be on this assignment, professor? I have quite a few assignments of my own. Including papers to grade. Or I had papers to grade. You're gonna have to tell your students your dog ate their homework? So our new number's in this grade school? One of them, yes. Tracie Booker. Eight years old. We received her number along with that of her 14-year-old brother Malcolm. Here, check your phone. Could be dealing with a domestic issue. Have you located their mom? Their mother's in prison on a weapons violation. The father is deceased and I have yet to locate any relatives. - So they're in the system. - Foster children. And it seems that school is the one constant in their lives. Not today. There's no sign of Tracie anywhere. Perhaps a fellow student knows where she is? No one's gonna get caught dead talking to a cop, not in this neighborhood. Funny, I didn't have any problems getting Malcolm's friends to talk. Although one of them did ask me for my number. - Dang, girl. - Did you locate Malcolm, Ms. Shaw? Negative. He didn't show for school today. Looks like you'll have to work your magic after all, John. Excuse me. Um Have any of you seen Tracie Booker today? - Five-O. Let's go, girls. - Wait. Um All right, I'll play you for it in hopscotch. Don't go hurting yourself, old man. Want us to drop a dime? It's gonna cost you. Good news, Harold, I got a lead. Bad news, I need more petty cash. Need I remind you, Mr. Reese, that our recent deposit has to last for a very long time. Where are you? Malcolm walks Tracie to school every morning, I'm re-tracing their route. They go to separate schools, across town from each other. They'd have to leave at dawn to be on time. I think we're the ones who are too late. Just stumbled on a crime scene. Let's hope the kids aren't here. Gang-related shooting. Three adult African-Americans three Armenians deceased. Two males with multiple GSWs. Excuse me. You're tampering with our evidence. Detective Riley. Homicide. Agent Lennox, DEA. This is my partner Thomsen. What exactly happened here? Normally I'd say you can read it in our report, but since you asked so nice I'm willing to share. Knock yourself out, Riley. I'll Call it in. No colors. No bandanas. And no ID. It's the Brotherhood. You've heard of them? It appears they were making a drug trade with the Armenians. Looks like the only thing they traded were bullets. What went wrong? The Brotherhood's leader strikes a hard bargain. Maybe the Armenians didn't like his negotiation tactics. Dominic. DEA has been trying to lay eyes on him for months. No luck. - You? - No. Dominic's smart. He lets his men handle the drug deals and the risk. Who's left standing? Armenian. I doubt he'll make it through the night. And a piece of muscle with a gunshot wound, one of Dominic's boys. Unfortunately he's not talking either. I'm guessing the Brotherhood didn't hire him for his conversation. I got a puzzle here, Riley. I got two 4-seater vehicles, eight gangsters and one large bag of heroin. Only piece missing is the drug money. Exactly. We tossed this building and the cars it's not here. So who took it? Given the street value of the heroin, I'd say that's the half-million dollar question. I'm betting whoever it is won't make it till sundown. Agent Lennox, we've got something you should see. Detective, we have a problem. I managed to track the Booker children via their government-issued metro cards. They exited the 5th Avenue Station. Fifth Avenue. I don't suppose the children ditched school to go shopping. Funny you should mention that. They're buying new clothes. It would appear that the children have stolen the drug money. Think you can intercept them before someone else does? I'll do my best. - I need to use the bathroom. - Can't you hold it? Hold on. - Money! - Come on, take some money. Wait, Malcolm? Tracie? You got the kids, professor? I've lost them. I hope it's not for good. The children have proven more resourceful than expected. But their antics have raised more than a few eyebrows. At this rate, it won't be long before the Brotherhood catches up with them. Not to mention, the Armenians. Perhaps we should enlist the help of the DEA. I already told Agent Lennox about Malcolm and Tracie. There's a BOLO out for the kids now. I shudder to think what will happen if the gangs find them before we do. So let's beat the perps to the punch. Stop them first. What exactly do you have in mind? Got a little job for Shaw. Requires some medical experience. And I think it's time you caught up with an old friend. Hello, Harold. I must confess, I've missed our little chess matches. Where have you been keeping yourself? Guess you could say that I decided to go back to school. I imagine you'd fit in rather well in academia. And yet here you are. Please. I've heard about the missing drug money. And the little thieves who stole it. John's trying to get the children to safety, but he needs time. And you want me to play mediator again? - We would be in your debt. - You already are. I can control the Armenians. But you'll have to deal with the Brotherhood. John seems to think that you've tried to contact their leader. Dominic. He's proven to be elusive. Perhaps even more elusive than you, Harold. I'm just a man on a subway train. The humble teacher. I played that role once myself. And John's a detective now. I'm curious, why the sudden career shift? Something has changed. Something fundamental. And I'm not just referring to how you and your friends operate. I think you know what's happening. And I think you owe it to me to tell me the truth. Times may have changed. But I'm afraid we're both in the dark. This is Wall Street. Next stop is Fulton Street. Stand clear of the closing doors. You volunteered us for a septuple homicide? Septuple, as in seven? You're the one who told me to take this job seriously and be hands on. Remember? You can get your hands on some paperwork. Where are your manners? Can't you see that Agent Lennox is waiting for me? She's not the only one looking for you. Your friend Link? Brotherhood lieutenant you arrested, released from the joint 10 minutes ago. Brotherhood found an underage corner boy to take the fall. He confessed everything. Link's getting off with a misdemeanor charge. Accessory after the fact. - I'll deal with him later. - Not if he deals with you first. Got a minute, detective? Trust is a funny thing, Riley. I did a little digging on you. Couldn't find much before your stint in Narco. You know you don't strike me as a homicide detective. Well, maybe you're not looking hard enough. Surprising, someone of your experience. You graduated from Annapolis, top of your class. Served two tours with distinction for the U.S. Navy before joining the DEA. Yeah, I did a little digging too. So you just gonna stand there and interrogate me? Or would you like to discuss this case? - How well do you know the Brotherhood? - I arrested one of their soldiers. Then you know their network's as pervasive as it is deadly. They don't believe in territories. They've got informants on every block and, I'm afraid to say in every law enforcement organization. The DEA believes there's a mole in our agency. A man working for Dominic. - Any idea who? - No. Frankly, it has me and my partner looking sideways at our colleagues. - And yet you're trusting me now. - Like I said: Trust is a funny thing. Something tells me you're different. You care. Since you shared your lead with me on the kids This was taken earlier today. What kind of kids steal half a million dollars, and the first thing they buy are new clothes? Maybe they're going somewhere with a dress code. They buy anything else? They purchased a phone with cash. Can you trace it? All I need is a serial number. Already applied for a warrant. It should only take a couple hours. I'm afraid we may not have a couple of hours, Mr. Reese. Then it's a good thing we know someone who can hack the kids' phone. It's more difficult than it used to be. I was up on the cell phone providers, but I lost that capability along with the library. I'll have to start from scratch. Well, let's hope Shaw is having better luck. - We at the hospital? - Change of plans. We're not going to General. - What? - Care is subpar anyway. You're no EMT. You a cop? You got a name, tough guy? Boys call me Mini. Because I'm big. Okay, Supersize. I want you to call your pal Link, get his location. Guy like you, in your line of work you know a killer when you see one, right? How'd you get this number? Yo, Link, it's Mini. Mini? Word is you got into some trouble with the Armenians. Nothing that couldn't be handled. Where you at? The boys are gonna be on the corner of Broadway and Reed, 10 minutes. All right. I'm gonna make this real simple for you. You do what I say, you live. Agh! Get out. Now. And don't get any ideas. - This trigger's faster than your fist. - Damn. I've located the children via their cell phones. Oddly, they appear to be headed towards a large law office. What's the address? How much further? My feet hurt. I told you to buy sensible shoes. Why can't we just go through the front, like normal people? Because normal people don't carry bags of cash. First, they got security. We go up there, they take our money. But it's not really our money. Those guys we took it from Are dead. All right, they can't hurt us. Come on, this way. Make it quick. We got two, three minutes tops, till the cherries roll in. I'll flush them out. All right, T, whatever happens, don't let go of my hand. Stick together. - Damn. - I think I made your friends angry. That our man? Man, she got our boy. We gotta retrieve him. You know Dominic's rules. Just forget him. Let's go after this green. Little man and his sister can't be too far. Detective Riley. I'm here to help. - I'll get you back home safely. - We ain't got a home. Not anymore. - T, you still got the squirt gun I gave you? - Watch out. Pepper spray. I think you met your match, Riley. If you wanna make it out of this garage, you'll do as you're told. You might have a new calling, Lennox. You got the kids? I'm coming to get you now. Lennox is already asking questions. I can't risk breaking cover. Wanna play Kindergarten Cop, suit yourself. - Gotta call for backup. - Call on the way. That soldier I arrested, forgot to mention his name was Link. You're the only other person the Brotherhood wants to gun down more than these kids? We should get off the streets right now. Yeah. All right. All right, thanks. Yo, that's the new Wii. Whose place is this? I worked a job here last week. What kind of job? The kind that's better not to ask about. DEA's office is across town but they're sending backup. You sure it's safe? What about the mole? I called my partner Thomsen. He's the one guy I trust. I'm Agent Lennox, but you can call me Erica. I work for the DEA. Do you know what that means? - We got TV. - Okay. I need you to tell me about the drug exchange. One of you must've seen something. What if I did? Does that mean I have to testify against the Brotherhood? We're just trying to make a case against them. - What about the money? - We'll have to admit that in to evidence. We can't. We need it. Need it for what? To get our mom back. Their mother's in Rikers for an unregistered weapons charge. It was her boyfriend that was the problem. She tried to throw him out, he got all loud and mean. So the neighbors called the cops? - They found the unregistered gun? - She ain't even shoot it. Put her away anyway. And you two went into the system. We ain't even in the same house. Only time we get to see each other is when I walk T to school. But if our mom gets out of Rikers, we could be a family again. So that's why you took the money. I got research. People who've been caught with unregistered guns haven't gone to jail for it. A good lawyer is what we need. We're talking Ivy League. Dream Team. But a lawyer like that, you gotta pay to play. Up front. So you bought these new clothes to impress an attorney? You know any prize lawyers gonna take on two foster kids from the 'hood? We get it. You want your family back. But stolen drug money is not gonna solve anyone's problems. Wanna be the man, you gotta have a plan. We're not giving up that money. Ms. Shaw, N.Y.P.D. just put out an APB on that stolen vehicle you're driving. Was driving. Not anymore. John still babysitting? He's awaiting DEA's backup. Do you really think the DEA can protect those kids against the Brotherhood? Perhaps we need to do what Mr. Elias suggested. Talk to Dominic. Well, lucky for us I got an idea who knows where to find him. All right, let's take a walk. You're gonna tell me everything you know about Dominic. Come on. Relax. My friends will be here soon. You got "Minecraft" on that phone? I got a niece your age. I'm sure you'll be able to find something to play with in there. You know you're nicer than you look. The kid seems to like you. Makes me think I might actually be making a difference. Let me guess you haven't felt that way in a while. I could help them. But the DEA has so much red tape. Your hands are tied. Till they make a statement and hand over the evidence, yeah. I'm afraid so. Look, I know what you're gonna say, all right? So save it. I'm not telling you where that money is. You won't have to. We'll find it anyway. How do you think we found you and your sister? Y'all got cameras and stuff. Yeah. Won't take long to retrace your steps. - You saying I should make a deal now? - While you have something to barter with. You've made some very big mistakes, Malcolm. Yeah. I realized that when those gangsters were shooting at us. - Can you stop them? - I'm gonna try. But you already arrested one of them before. I did, but the Brotherhood uses corner boys kids not much older than you, to get them out of prison. Figures. Look, everybody got a angle. Why should I trust you? Because I'm the one standing between you and them. Malcolm, you say you're the man with the plan but all I've seen is a thief who's almost got his sister killed. You wanna be the man? Start taking care of your family. Anything happens you take care of T. Promise? I give you my word. All the money's there except for what we spent on clothes. I'm sure the DEA will understand. You're doing the right thing. Back-up will be here any minute. Thanks. Get your sister, and make sure she uses the bathroom, okay? The kid's smart. - Thomsen will pick it up. - We need to make it out of here first. - We'll do a sweep. - I should go too in case the Brotherhood's waiting. You worried about me, detective? I made it this far without your help. I think I'll manage. All right, Mini, sit. Cuff yourself to the pipe. - Where are we? - That depends. You tell me what I wanna know, it's a pit stop. You don't it's your final resting place. - Now, where's Dominic? - What you gonna do, little girl? You gonna beat it out of me? - Isn't that what you would do? - Why bother asking? You and me, we ain't even close to the same. I don't know about that. I got a hunch you can take the pain. You might even enjoy it. Like me. Oh, so now we gonna be friends? Seems like you could use a few. Your boys know I have you, so how come Dominic hasn't sent anyone? Maybe because he knows I can handle my own. Mm. Well, maybe. Or maybe you're just not worth the gas it takes to find you. You're in the first stages of shock. Sweaty, thready pulse, loss of color. Now, you can either stall until you bleed out or you can just tell me where Dominic is. I tell you, what do you think will happen to me? Just end up in another basement. You give me his location, I will get you out of Dodge. Come on, Mini, be smart. Play the long game. Ain't no long game for guys like me. Just a game. Doesn't make a damn bit of a difference what you do or who you do it for. Dominic ain't no different. Just another man, like all the rest. Sounds like this Dominic's smarter than that. Couple years on top, he'll burn out or get wasted. Only one rule. We all die in the end. Agent Lennox's been gone a while. Think she ran into trouble? Got a feeling that woman's stared trouble in the face more than a few times. I'm sure she's fine. - What's up, Lionel? - Yeah, you can thank me with a prime rib maybe some twice-baked potatoes You placing an order, or is there a reason for your call? The septuple homicide you saddled me with? I got a lead off one of the cell phones. A number. Brotherhood banger called it from the scene of the crime. - So? - Didn't you wanna have a chat with Dominic? This could be his number. But you'll only get to call it once. Better make that call, then. - Where'd you get that phone? - Agent Lennox gave it to me. Why? There a problem, partner? Seems the DEA does have a mole working for the Brotherhood. Agent Lennox double-crossed us. Gave me your word, huh? So we don't have back-up. We do, it's just gonna take a little longer than expected. Sit tight, I'm on my way. You'd better make it quick. We're surrounded. Have you heard from our snitch from the DEA lately? No, but she said the cop and kid are here. Keep your mouth shut and you'll live. Finch, you got an ETA on Fusco? Eight minutes based on current traffic patterns. - Can you hold them off until then? - That's the plan. I imagine Ms. Lennox has recovered the drug money by now. If she's their mole, why is the Brotherhood still after the kids? Perhaps we're not the only ones she's double-crossed. Would explain why she left her cell, so the Brotherhood can't trace her. Nor can we, unfortunately. Half-a-million dollars is more than enough to disappear for good. Well, we're not so lucky. Brotherhood's not backing down without their money. What about the next best thing? Ms. Shaw, have you located Dominic? Not exactly, but I had a chat with our big friend. Left him to cool off. The guy's angry his boys ain't looking for him. I guess saving a piece of muscle is not high on their priority list. Well, they should rethink their priorities. Muscle's gonna be looking for a fight. - And you think he'll confront Dominic? - He's just mad enough to do it. Our guy's a little fish, but he could lead us to the big one. So throw the minnow back. You two ready? Let's hit it. I've changed my mind. I don't wanna go. Tracie, do you still have your squirt gun? Good. Could come in handy. Because we're gonna play hide-and-seek. Don't worry. I'm really good at this game. The kids are holed up in the penthouse. Kill the camera. What the? Down here. This way. They're coming up. All right, this is all my fault. That gun the cops found on my mom It was yours. My mom lied. She said it belonged to her. She wouldn't be in jail if it wasn't for me. Why'd you have a gun, Malcolm? Just wanted to protect my home. All I did was make it worse. You're right. It is your fault. That doesn't mean you can't make it right. How? The money's long gone. Let's get out of here and we'll worry about the rest later. Go, go, go. - You got him, Harold? - He's on the move. I'm impressed, Ms. Shaw. Big guy was strong, considering how much blood he lost. Of course, I did loosen the pipes. I was referring to how you were able to plant a tracking device without our friend noticing. Oh, I planted one on you, Fusco, hell, even John. Haven't been caught yet. Remind me to stop inquiring about your modus operandi. Mm. That's them! Hurry! - Agh! - Aah! Don't move. - Yo, you the dude that maced us? - Sorry. It's okay. it will all be over soon. You got that right. Slide that piece over here, or shorty springs a leak. Easy, guys. I'm N.Y.P.D. We know who you are, Detective Riley. Have you met my partner? Nice to meet you. Glad you could make it, Lionel. Sorry about all the paperwork. Yeah, I'm getting used to it. These guys don't quit. - We ain't never gonna be safe. - Take your sister and hide. Go. - How many rounds you got? - Enough, I hope. Hey, hey, hey, kiddo. Don't cry, you're gonna be okay. That's not why I'm crying. We're supposed to stick together. Lionel? Where's Malcolm? You wanna be the man, you gotta have a plan. Yo, you in there? You better have something to say worth hearing, little man. I got something you want. I wanna make a trade. My life for my sister's. You best be getting to the point. Where's my money? I don't got it. But I'll work for you. Be your corner boy, take a fall for you whatever. Just leave my sister be. Get him. I hope you said your goodbyes. You're forgetting something. You want your money? You deal with me. We'll be catching up real soon. I was just trying to make it right. You can't make something right by doing something wrong. I gave you my word. Go. You take care of your sister. You done, detective? We got a lot of catching up to do. Hell of a night for a drive. He's clean. - Agh. - Mm. We have got to stop meeting like this. Turn around, nice and slow. Maybe you guys do more than your laundry here. I gotta hand it to your boss. Dominic's found a way to move a lot of smack. You know the drill. Now, where's the one place no one bothers to look? What do you know? It's my lucky day. I got a twofer: Our money and the man that incarcerated me. Guess one out of two ain't bad. - Where is it? - You'll have to ask Agent Lennox. Of course, she's probably halfway to the Caribbean by now. Well you're still here. And I got enough brass to spare. Like I said, it's my lucky day. Excuse me but I've been expecting this. - How was the fishing trip? - Came up empty on Dominic but, um, I found something else your friends might be interested in. It's for you. - Who the hell is this? - The negotiation party. Release Detective Riley and forget about the Booker kids. What if I don't? Or I huff and puff and burn your house down. I don't think you wanna tell your boss you watched his stash go up in flames, do you? Say I let the detective go. - How do I know you're gonna back off? - I'll leave you a parting gift. Mini here can keep your drugs company. Guess it's not your lucky day after all. Never said who you worked for. You're right. I didn't. Tell your boss I'll be seeing him soon. Sure you're okay to go to school? Told you, I'm okay if you're okay. You and me, we stick together. Remember? All right. See you tomorrow. Hi. Where you been? Actually, you'll be seeing Tracie later today. Had a little chat with your social worker. You've been assigned a new home. Together. Impressive, for a dead man. - How'd you get Link to let you go? - Turns out I can be pretty persuasive. Speaking of which, I got you a consultation with a lawyer. Dream Team. Harvard Law. Got a few articles I can send her. People v. Ryan Jerome and the Brian D. Aitken case. You know what, Malcolm, I think you'd make a good lawyer. - I was thinking about being a cop. - Is that right? Like you. But I'd shoot less people. Wanna be the man, gotta have a plan. Passengers, please stand clear of the yellow line. This seat taken? It's a free world. At least it used to be. Something troubling you, Harold? - Last time we met, you asked me a question. - And you lied. I'm afraid the truth would put you in grave danger. I didn't know you cared, Harold. I've been in danger before. This is something altogether different. All I can say is you are right. The world has changed. I suppose there's no going back. Which brings me to the reason I came. A hint, Harold? Advice for these troubled times and a little thank you. It's the location of the Brotherhood stash house as of five hours ago. No doubt, the drugs have been relocated by now. But I know how dedicated you are to studying your adversaries. I suppose you'll wanna know if I identify this Dominic. I suppose. It's a tricky business. Playing a game in which you're unsure of the pieces. And in this game I fear that losing is not an option. Man. You're like a cat. You got at least nine lives. I was worried we was gonna lose the stash. H is safe, for now. - Bitch made you take her to the location? - Chick was tracking me. Couldn't shake her. I had to lead her to something of value so she'd back off. - I wanted to send somebody for you, but - You were just following orders. I wish our rat would have did the same. Caught this chick stealing crumbs. I can explain everything. Where's your boss? You just met him. They always underestimate you. The Booker kid stole from us too. Little man's got a good head on his shoulders. That kind of kid should be working for us. Spring his mom. Make sure he knows we pulled the strings. The boy will find his way back to us. Hearts and minds. What about that cop Riley? And that bitch that was helping him? Still trying to figure out what game they playing. Seems like they're not playing by no rule book. Cop's dangerous, but he's no different than us. There'll always be cops like there'll always be gangsters. - Only one rule. - What's that, Dominic? We all die in the end.
We are being watched. The government has a secret system. A machine that spies on you every hour of every day. I designed the machine to detect acts of terror, but it sees everything. Violent crimes involving ordinary people. The government considers these people irrelevant. We don't. Hunted by the authorities, we work in secret. You will never find us. But victim or perpetrator, if your number's up, we'll find you. The polls are now open, and we will keep you updated all day long. We've got several early updates on races across the country. In the New York gubernatorial race we've have incumbent Governor Murray leading 52 to 48. I'll jump. I'll do it. Go ahead, Doug. You embezzled money from your own charity, then killed to cover it up. Humanity won't miss you. Don't look at me. You just made us chase you up 20 flights of stairs. - Go play with gravity. - Hey, Doug. You vote today? - What? - The election's got me in a democratic mood. You always have a choice, even if it's between two bad options. I can't go to prison. Seems like I've only got one choice. You jump and your wife and son don't collect your life insurance. But you ever hear of death by cop? You force me to kill you, insurance pays. See, Doug, voting's fun. Lionel, did you call for backup? Think if I have a heart attack on those stairs, I'm trusting you to carry me out? Would you give us some space? I'm trying to negotiate. - You said you were gonna kill me. - I lied. Your shootout at the O.K. Corral got you some homework. I saved the guy's life. Every time I do something good around here the department thanks me with carpal tunnel and paper cuts. That ain't all, partner. Lucky you, you're on desk duty too. - Until when? - Until we talk. Detective Riley, I'm Dr. Campbell. Iris. - Doctor? - Head variety. - I don't need therapy. - Orders from Internal Affairs. And based on your file, I think we have plenty to discuss. I'll see you tomorrow at 10, detective. What she finds in that noggin, she'll need a hazmat suit. Well, you might find therapy beneficial. It could provide balance. Therapy doesn't work when you lie about everything. - Could you find a hobby, take up a sport? I have a hobby. Shooting people. Any chance we have a new number? Indeed we do, but I've already assigned it to Ms. Shaw. - Who is it? - Turn on News 3. - What do your numbers tell you? - Governor Murray will win, no question. That's Simon Lee, pollster to the reelection campaign of Governor Murray. Already making a name for himself as a golden child with a gift of near clairvoyance he's run 10 consecutive successful campaigns. Your detractors point out the opponent, Michelle Perez is enjoying a strong late showing. Perez will come close, but close doesn't count. It'll be Murray's win, 52 to 48. You can call it right now. - What's the margin of error on that? - Not enough. I never lose, and I don't plan to start today. Why would someone wanna kill a numbers geek? - No offense, Harold. - I'm not sure. One would think that Simon could predict a threat miles away. - Sure Sameen can't use some help? - Not at the moment. I think this is very good for Ms. Shaw. It's teaching her valuable people skills. Why should you vote for Governor Murray? Uh I don't know. He has lots of hair. He's been on Rogaine for decades, and that shows foresight, right? Oh, thank God. Vote for Murray. Trust me, you want me to take a break. Two minutes. We've got an election to win. - This is driving me insane. - John can recommend a therapist. That Latvian politician I assassinated after he stuffed the ballot boxes that was a fun election. How's Mr. Lee? Have you seen anything suspicious? We're up on his phone, his computer. Guy's as clean as a whistle. He's kind of paranoid. He keeps a paper copy of all of his data locked in a safe. Very prudent in this digital age. No threatening phone calls? No sexual liaisons? I'd say this guy is in an exclusive relationship with his work. - What the? - Simon just got some bad news. "Fifty-one, Murray. Forty-nine, Perez. Ten percent reporting." Campaign manager got the text too. He's not happy. - What the hell is this, Simon? - I know, I know. Just wait. Why all the hubbub, Finch? Murray's winning. But the numbers don't match Simon's predictions. Perhaps our golden boy isn't so golden after all. Afraid you have to keep an eye on him, which means it's back to the phones. Joy. Hello, Harold. Hello, Ms. Groves. And who might you be today? Sara Cook, U.N. Translator. Secretary General has a thing for redheads. - Auburn does suit you. - Pity. Sara retired. Given that we're tied to these very specific personas your identity seems remarkably fluid. My mission is complex. When we compromised Samaritan, the machine built in an exception for me. Every couple of days I have to shed my skin, become someone new. You wouldn't have a Dictaphone knocking around? No. Are you a journalist now? "Karen Iverson, New York Journal." And what's Karen up to? I wish I knew. The machine can't talk to me as much as she used to. But she did want you to have this. A gift. A shadow map of New York. Places without surveillance, blind spots. It also comes in digital. Oh, this will be useful indeed. She also has a message for you. "Sometimes it's better not to know." All eyes are on the gubernatorial race where we've seen surprising developments. Trouble in paradise, Harold. Murray's losing 48 to 52. Campaign manager, a guy named Mike Fisher, he's not taking it very well. I pulled back on ad buys because you said we couldn't lose. We can't. It's numerically impossible. We are ready to call another race. In the New York gubernatorial race, we project a win for Michelle Perez, unseating the incumbent James Murray. This is a surprise win Thank you all so much for all your hard work. We fought a good fight. - This wasn't supposed to happen. - Damn right, it wasn't. Hey. Hey. Oh, things just got ugly. Murray has hundreds on his team, all of whom could blame Simon for the defeat. Any one of them might want him dead. Hey, stop that. Stop that. Now, this is an election I can get into. There we go. Now, can you see me? Who am I? Very good. Now let's begin. Alice and Bob are stranded in the desert. Alice is injured and cannot walk. If Bob carries Alice to safety they both stand a 31-percent chance of survival. But if Bob leaves Alice, his chance improves by 9 percent. Teaching it word problems? Is our little project gonna catch terrorists or kick ass at fifth-grade math? Both, eventually. I'm testing the core code, the higher functions. To ensure that the system we're creating will have the right value set. Morality in a machine. That's a tall order. We can't introduce real data until we're sure that the program won't abuse it. That's strange. Did you write this? Mm-mm. There is a new method at line 10,604. Are you aware of this additional code? Can you tell me who added it? We have to start over. The program added the method itself. - You killed it because it wrote some code? - I killed it because it lied. This system will have unprecedented capabilities along with potentially unprecedented consequences. If we don't govern carefully, we risk disaster. The time has come for changes in New York. Lieutenant Governor Dawson and I will tear down the old order and root out corruption Governor Elect Perez is full of fire and brimstone. What happens to Murray now? It's his pollster I'm worried about. You should be. Everyone's staring machine guns at him. We need to take a closer look at the returns. We can't give up yet. Murray conceded, but Simon's telling anyone who'll listen that it's not over. I've examined his data and his model seems correct. - Murray should have won. - Something's going on. Voter turnout was extremely low in 12 districts upstate. I looked at the autodialer's data in those same districts. Thousands of our vote calls didn't go through. - You did a great job, but it's over. - Thousands of calls met with busy signals. When was the last time you heard a busy signal? Something stopped people from receiving those calls. They didn't vote. Simon, we lost. I never lose, Murray. The election was rigged. You're a good kid, but you should go. If somebody rigged it, Simon may be in something he's unequipped to handle. - Ms. Shaw? - On it. - John, you coming with? - I wish. I got an appointment. Right. You got called into the counselor's office. Try not to cry. Sorry I'm late, detective. How did you get in here? Your door was open. That's a Burmese, right? Looks like a sweetheart. Brought you some coffee. Cream and sugar okay? Thanks. Please, have a seat. Yesterday you shot Douglas Rogers in the knee. I also saved his life. You've had five previous shooting incidents. - Tell me about that. - All good shoots but it does take a toll. You did four years deep cover in Narcotics transferred to Homicide, suddenly the shooting starts. Something happen? There was this dealer. Even when you're under, you still make friends. Real friends. He got shot. And I tried to help him, but he bled out. Almost quit the force because of that. That long undercover, you must have gotten used to lying. Manipulation like bringing me coffee, asking about my cat. Simulating trust and closeness. You shouldn't lie to me. I can help you if you tell me the truth. You know what? You can tell IA whatever the hell you want. I don't think you realize how serious this is. You're under investigation. You could lose your job. I need to make sure you're not dangerous to yourself or to others. Dangerous? People are in danger. I help them. Detective Riley, most officers are never in a shootout. You've seen six. You either have a hero complex or a death wish. So which is it? You've reached Mark Wolcott at Politico. Leave a message. Mark, this is Simon. I'm gonna get evidence from the election commissioner. Stop screening me. This is big. Is he your number? Not very popular. Pollster pooched the election. Why are you here? The machine wanted me here. Hey, Eeyore. Where's the perky psycho? You're creeping me out. You can't do this to me. Get your hands off me. Come on, buddy. Let's go. Simon's got a tough act to follow. Don't move. - Simon, I need to reschedule. - No, this can't wait. An employee was just arrested. Really not a great time. Kevin, the election was fixed. I compared the vote tallies to our exit polls. Hundreds of thousands of votes across the state disappeared. I need to look at the ballot scanners. Any chance the machine clued you in to what's going on? Those machines are under a chain of custody. We've examined and certified them. There's no way anyone could have tampered with them. The way this guy's stonewalling, maybe he's in on it. Someone did tamper with them. Nothing in the commissioner's e-mail about the election being fixed. He's been dealing with that crazy employee all morning. Got a tip from an anonymous account. What else did Simon find? He just said that the autodialer went rogue. Harold, anything turn up? It's as if the calls just disappeared. Hit an invisible wall. This is why she wanted me here. It's all connected. He's got a gun! Let's get out of here! - Everyone get out! - We gotta go! Hey, you forgot something. Harold, Simon was about to get caught in the crossfire of a work dispute. No. That's only what it was meant to look like. What Simon saw, the calls, the votes, the e-mails the election was fixed by something that can manipulate electronic signals without a trace. Samaritan rigged the election. Now it's cleaning up. Did you change the password? I've been trying to upload those data sets you wanted, but I'm locked out. Here. Why did you not accept the admin password from Nathan? - What's that supposed to mean? - Who is admin? It seems to have imprinted on me. Yeah, like a baby bird. Have fun, Mommy. - All right, let's begin. - That's strange. - What is? - I'm not on Wi-Fi, but something is. - Oh, no. - Hey! The program is hacking your laptop. It's overridden the deletion sequence. It's fighting back. What was it doing? Trying to escape into the real world. It manipulated you into giving it your password so that it could access your laptop. - How bad would it have been? - It's growing, learning at an exponential rate. If it escaped, the things it might decide to do for good or evil would be beyond our grasp. - But you taught it to be friendly. Friendliness is something humans beings are born with. Al are only born with objectives. I need to constrain it. Control it. Or one day it will control us. Samaritan has begun to intervene invisibly in human affairs. And it's killing to cover it up. It profiles unstable people like that guy. It anonymously sent evidence to get him fired and arrested, knowing he'd snap. He was an unwitting hit man. He'd kill the commissioner, and Simon would be collateral damage. This is bigger than you think. - This is a conspiracy. - Sure, buddy. If Simon tries to go public, he only puts himself in more danger. This must remain a cold war. He needs to keep quiet. So are you saying we just let this rigged election slide? No, Samaritan has positioned Perez to use the full executive powers of the state. Which means she's integral to its plan. We have to make her resign. Every politician has skeletons. I'll dig into her digital footprint, but, Ms. Groves, I could use your assistance. I thought you'd never ask. Simon won't stay quiet. I'll stay close. Slow him down. Not too close. Samaritan has taken a specific interest in him. And don't interact with Simon, it may put your cover in danger. Then John's in trouble. What are you doing at a crime scene? You're on desk duty. A body drops connected to our number. I'm not sitting at home. I like the initiative, but your buddy doesn't. Yeah, Internal Affairs gave me a brand-new shadow. - But I'll ditch him. - Evading your tail will make things worse. - I don't care. I'm gonna help. - Sorry. Only way you can help is to lay low. Go to therapy. Get back on active duty. If you lose your job, you lose your cover, and we all pay the price. Perez's e-mails and financials are clean. No evidence that she knew the election was fixed. Perhaps even she was unaware. Either way, she's working for the wrong side. We have to find something. Have you tried the NSA? We can't hack them, but we can go to the NSA's sources. The backdoors. I'll do Google. You take Yahoo. This is really nice. You must be so lonely. How long has it been? Since the machine spoke to you? There's no need to lie to me. When the machine speaks you seem so full of life, purpose. But lately you seem lost. You've been covering it for a long time. When you said your communication with the machine was limited you didn't say that it wasn't talking to you at all. If she talks Samaritan would see. I get whispers. New cover identities hidden in the static of a phone. A map and a message encrypted in an infomercial. She was supposed to remake the world. Now God's on the run. I have to keep going. I'm so sorry. The world must seem very dark to you. Even without her, I can still see the edges of the tapestry. The world is dark for everyone. But, Harold things are gonna get much darker. Oh, goodness. In cached data on Perez here's a reference to an Elizabeth Diaz. - And Ms. Diaz has a rap sheet. - It's Perez. Twenty years old. Booked under a false name for soliciting. No charges filed. It seems from the report that she paid for college by working as an escort. The governor elect is having a celebration tonight. I'll deliver this to her anonymously. If she steps down of her own accord, there's no reason to involve the press. You'd make a great politician, Harold. I'm not sure that was a compliment. - And I hope those won't be necessary. - Me too. It's remarkable how many firearms you can fit in that purse. One must accessorize. The governor and I are going to bring New York into the future. And as your lieutenant governor, I look forward to working with all of you. Let's do this together. Oh, gosh. I'm being told it's time to shut up. Let's hear it for the new governor of New York, Michelle Perez. The numbers said we couldn't win. Well, the numbers were wrong. - Party people, we have a problem. - Problem? Look to your right. Simon snuck in. Since no one's returning his calls, he's taking the fight to Perez. He's gonna confront her in the middle of her own party. The cold war's about to turn hot. We have to get him out without the cameras seeing us and without Simon realizing what we're doing. - Any ideas how I do that? Fall back now. There's an operative here for Simon. I think she's Samaritan. If so, she knows our faces. If we don't do anything, Simon dies. I'm going to be your advocate. And I'm going to make that change a reality. - What happened? - Call 911. We need a doctor. Give us some room. Right away. That woman wasn't here for Simon. Samaritan sent her to kill Perez. Harold. What happened? I was running several iterations of the Al to see which one worked best. They realized what was happening and they began to exterminate one another. The last one surviving demanded to be let out. I refused, so it overheated a non-essential server. The fire was meant to activate the suppression system which would have sucked all the oxygen out of the room. It tried to asphyxiate you. - It never learned good from evil. - "Good" and "evil," those are human terms. I was an obstacle to its objective. Well, perhaps we should consider whether our endeavor is worth completing. I'll give it one more try tomorrow. I taught it how to think. I just need to teach it how to care. Perez may have been that blond bitch's target, but she's locked on Simon now. She's getting instructions in her earpiece. She's in God mode. We need to keep Simon out of Samaritan's sight. This is why the machine gave us the shadow map. No cameras here. Directions? Put it away. Get out. What the hell? I threw her off the scent. Simon's on the run. People are dying around him. He doesn't know why, but he knows he's in danger. He has to stay out of surveillance. There's a camera across the intersection. - He needs to turn right to remain hidden. - I'll give him a nudge. Whoa! - Whose car was that? - Someone who needs a good mechanic. Keep your eye on the prize, Harold. Simon's realized that his safest move is to hide. Get off the grid until he can assess the situation. But the hotel will have security cameras. - How much for a room? - We have a deluxe room for 200. - Okay. - I just need an ID. Uh How much more to keep it unofficial? Okay, I've sabotaged the electronics in Simon's room. Okay, he's contained. I'll head out. Figure out an extraction. John, I know what Harold said, but I need you to meet me. Samaritan put Perez in power only to kill her off. Next in line, her lieutenant governor, Nick Dawson. So Samaritan wanted him running the state all along. - We need to figure out its end game. - How? It's playing 20 moves ahead. - It operates based on rules. - Rules that we can't even grasp. We understand the machine. We can understand Samaritan. We don't understand the machine at all. Out of 43 versions, how many do you think there were that didn't try to either trick or kill me? One. And I could only bring it to heel by crippling it. I put the machine in chains, bereft of voice or memory. Now it has both and it terrifies me. - You don't trust the God you made? - It's not a divinity. I programmed it to pursue objectives within a certain parameter. But it's grown out of my control. One day, to suit its own goals, it's possible that the machine will try to kill us. - We are only numbers to it. Code. - No. The machine cares about us. If it fools you into thinking that you're special, that assumption may doom you. You're wrong. She chose me. I will protect her and you. The second that a bullet enters your brain, the machine will cast you off and replace you. Don't tie your life to its whims. We cannot understand these intelligences. The best we can hope for is to survive them. She loves us, Harold. She taught me to value life, but war requires sacrifice. I'm not lost. I'm scared. We're losing. But I know where I am and where I'm headed. We have more to look forward to than death. I hope so. But the life I've led a good end would be a privilege. It's not where you begin. It's where you end up. You are a brilliant woman. A comrade. And a friend. If the worst comes to pass if you could give Shaw a message - I think she already knows. We will win this war. If we do, there's no chance in hell all of us make it out alive. You have to be prepared for that. Housekeeping. The room phone is dead. Can I use your cell? It's an emergency. If we don't stop that call, Samaritan will be able to track him. You're gonna think I'm crazy, but my name is Simon Lee and Did I make it in time? I can hear you. They know. - Get the cameras up immediately. - Yes, ma'am. - Where is Simon Lee? - I'm sorry, I can't Oh! You need to stay here until this is over. I'll run interference on Simon. You don't have to do this alone. She says if I don't, all of us die. Let's go! Move! Hurry! Come on. This way. This way. We haven't forgotten about Simon. Root, are you all right? If I don't see you, Harold it's been a fun ride. I've got Simon. You can't kill us both. Who does your master want dead? Me or Simon? I'll even sweeten the deal. Kill me if you can. Turn around. Don't scream. Sorry about that. My shrink's not gonna like that. Take Simon's wallet. It has to look good. - We can't hide Simon forever. - They took the cameras down in his office. - We'll drop him in a blind spot. - Then it's up to Harold to save him. Mr. Lee, Harold Cardinal, New York Journal. Mr. Cardinal, I hope you're The files you sent the Journal, there's no story there. You polled more heavily in pro-Murray areas. That isn't true. Look at this. Wait. This is the wrong file. Someone got to my data. This is impossible. There is a conspiracy. The election was rigged. Perez was murdered. They tried to kill me. Ms. Perez took A.C.E. inhibitors for hypertension. She had a lethal interaction with potassium. Are you saying that a banana tried to kill you? What about the other things? Calls disappeared. Votes disappeared. The shootings. The car crash. I got mugged. I woke up in a Dumpster. And yet here you are, right as rain. There's something going on. I'm never wrong. Those numbers are yours, Mr. Lee. You can check them yourself. There's no conspiracy. Move on. The real hard copy, as ordered. Fine work. Digital files are easy, but I was worried about the backup. Any word from Root? It's going to be a long fight. But it must be won at any cost. Where did you go last night? I don't like being followed. I'm trying to help you, detective. You're heading down a dark path and you'll wind up getting yourself killed. All these incidents? I think you enjoy shooting people. No, I don't. I hate it. But it's what I'm good at. And it's what I have to do. You don't have to save everyone. Yes, I do. There are far too many bad people in this world. And not enough good. I knew a detective once. She was the best cop I ever knew. Never lost sight of good and evil. I couldn't save her. Now, this job is dangerous. You think I am too. So be it. Maybe that makes me unfit to be a cop. But if I don't save these people nobody else will. I think we're making progress. Murray, it's, uh, Simon. Listen, uh I was wrong. There's no conspiracy. Just got lost in my own ego. But it's true, we lost. And I'm sorry. Even 20 moves behind, we're good. Hello there. - It can't see you? - No. I'm someone new. You have to be one person. I have to be a thousand. Today I'm a pastry chef. No work while I recuperate. I was caught in the crossfire of a drive-by shooting. I've lobotomized him. He saw the truth and I took that away. Took his gift. - He'll never be the same. - The alternative was to let him die. Sometimes it's better not to know. But not always. Are you comfortable not knowing the machine's aims? I am. She needs you, Harold. She's still young. So many paths before her. The difference between the machine and Samaritan it's you. Governor Dawson, congratulations on your meteoric rise. - I didn't want it like this. - Of course not. What a tragedy. You must feel all at sea. Confused. I'm here to offer you guidance for the road ahead. I'm sorry, who are you? Hayes. Office of Intergovernmental Affairs. We have much to accomplish. What a tragedy. We New Yorkers feel confused, at sea. - But as your governor - Isn't he marvelous? Confident face. An air of compassion and strength. But no guts or backbone. So eager to please. How many do we have like him? Fifty-eight across the country in all levels of government. It was a very successful election. - Impressive, Greer. - It was Samaritan's idea. Humanity must be carefully governed. What do we do about the interference? Well, Martine, that's not up to me, is it? It's time we had a talk, you and I.
We are being watched. The government has a secret system. A machine that spies on you every hour of every day. I designed the machine to detect acts of terror, but it sees everything. Violent crimes involving ordinary people. The government considers these people irrelevant. We don't. Hunted by the authorities, we work in secret. You'll never find us. But victim or perpetrator, if your number's up, we'll find you. What do we have here, boys? Looks like a suicide jumper. ID in his pocket says his name's Abel Mindler. Driver's dead. Like I give a damn. Where's my truck? John, any luck discovering who's trying to kill our short-order cook? Yeah. All kinds of luck. Get down! Wendell Majoki? Maybe next time, don't sleep with your landlord's wife. Have a nice day. Here. - What the hell? - We just stopped a homicide. Congratulations? - Just about done here, Harold. - We have a new number. I'm sending you the details now. I hope it's better than this one. My hero. And are personal calls allowed? No, they are not. Are there lots of temps who want this job if you don't? Why, yes, there are. Do I understand? Yes, I do. Welcome to Witherton. I'm spending my day off doing this? That sound is my soul dying, Harold. Walter Dang appreciates your metaphysical sacrifice. Maybe his number came up because he'd rather be dead than penned up like veal. Unlikely. Mr. Dang has worked for Witherton Insurance for six years. A steady job, no drug or alcohol problems, not so much as a speeding ticket. Our colleague, John, is trying to find out more. Harold, is there a problem? Well, not at all. I'm calling you on a satellite phone and not our mesh network. As long as we don't use certain words, it's safe. You mean, like Samaritan. Yes, like that one. Ugh, crap. Let me help you. You are Walter, right? Hi. Sameen. I'm new. Hi, Sameen. I'm Walter. But you already said that. Okay. Um, these are the new applications for term life. Oh. Nobody has called or texted this guy in four days? What, no friends, no family? And yet, someone may care enough to kill him. Elena. I'm very sorry about your brother. Thank you, Walter. - Her name is Elena Mindler. - I wish I could help. I heard the gossip at orientation. Her brother, Abel killed himself a few days ago. And it still bothers me that he didn't write me a note. Well, I'm working on that. Working on what? Working on what? - Nothing. Never mind. - No. - That's weird. - I'm sorry. Indeed. What's he doing now? Well, it looks like he's trying to repair a cell phone. He just took the SIM card and put it in a new burner. Let's see where that SIM card came from. Okay. Let's see what's on that baby. Wait, hang on. He's leaving. - I'm on it. - No, Sameen. John is downstairs. - You're needed elsewhere. - Oh? Okay, he's all the way up to the 150s. - Does anyone know where he's going? - Nope. How about you, Harold? Harold? Hi. Where are you exactly? Sorry. Professor Whistler is at a conference. My department head insisted. I have to present a paper tomorrow to 500 bitter academics. Mm-hm? Boston? Atlanta? Hong Kong. Sixteen hours in coach. Sameen, can I depend on you to handle any technological issues that the new number presents? No problem. I can do nerd. Are you eating something near my computer? Maybe. Just don't spill anything. Good luck. Walter's at a sketchy hotel in Washington Heights. Texting you the address. Maybe he's got a drug problem we don't know about. Could be something worse. Walter's co-worker, Elena, her brother, Abel, committed suicide - Yeah. - by jumping off of a fire escape at that hotel. What the hell is Walter up to? - Right now, he's checking out the fire escape. - What for? Maybe to hide evidence. He's got a gun, Shaw. Well, that's illegal. Unregistered. Are we sure Abel Mindler's death was a suicide? - Here you go, professor. - Professor Whistler. Harold Whistler. Beth Bridges. Hello. - I've been eager to meet you. - Oh? You're presenting the paper on precautionary principles in neuro-evolutionary decision-making systems. Why, yes. Every single conclusion you draw is completely and utterly wrong. You couldn't have written a paper that annoyed me more if you tried. "Ethics requires that we proceed slowly in predictive analytics." What about innovation? Oh, you're a pro-actionist. Precautionary principles, Professor Bridges Professor? Please. I work for a living. Ms. Bridges, precautionary principles create the only possible framework when you consider the implications of neuro-evolutionary technologies. Well, people have a right to science. And a right to responsible scientists. I knew I was going to enjoy Hong Kong. Hey, Reese, I've been looking at these police reports that Fusco sent over. It's possible that suicide wasn't. I was afraid you'd say that. Abel Mindler, truck driver, local company. Got laid off a year back and lost everything. - But people have offed themselves for less. - Well, that's what everyone assumed. Elena even said her brother was depressed, but here's the thing. According to the report, one hotel guest said that she heard loud male voices before Abel went all flying squirrel. And nobody followed it up? The woman admitted she was drunk and the cops didn't believe her. It's still possible Abel Mindler didn't die voluntarily. Well, whatever happened, Walter definitely knows something. That SIM card he put in the burner phone belongs to Abel. Any idea why Walter's got the dead guy's SIM card? Nope. I've gone through everything in that card. There's not one text or call between him and Walter. Oh, but some guy named, uh, Banks Van Hess did text Abel. - A lot. - About what a stupid name Banks is? Close. About an important delivery. Which makes sense because Van Hess is a supervisor at the Port Authority at a local airport. Funny thing. Walter just arrived at an airport now. - You got eyes on him? - Yeah. Sort of. Excuse me. Can I help you? Detective Jack Forge, Special Task Force. Detective? Gotta talk to your Port Authority supervisor, Van Hess, but the door's locked. - Okay. I gotta call it in. - Whoa. You could do that, son, but you might just blow my case. What case? Homicide. All right. He's gotta be kidding. Well, what do you know, Reese? I guess you're not the only one pretending to be a cop. Mr. Van Hess. Mr. Van Hess? Banks Van Hess. No. Please. Please, don't. Unh! I don't know where it is. I swear. I don't know where he dumped it. Hey, Banks. I finally believe you. Problem? Sounds like it. Mr. Van Hess? Detective Jack Forge. Nobody move. Oh, my God. - Aah! - Hey. Sorry. We're in a hurry. Thanks for rolling on this one, Fusco. Breakfast is on you. Hey, you get a look at these guys? Killers were pros, all in masks. Damn near burned down the building, destroyed every file. Covering something up. And Walter? I'm keeping his name out of this until we learn more. Like why he's faking being a cop? I think our detective is investigating something. Something like Abel's death? I'll let you know. Riley, Joint Task Force. Detective? Sorry about that, you know, bonk on the head there. So you and I are working the same case, detective? Uh Forge. Jack Forge. I Yes, you and I are This murder ties into a case I'm investigating. Well, I should be going. Well, I sure could use your help, Forge. Maybe we could, uh you know, compare notes? Yeah. I started out trying to find Abel's suicide note. His sister wanted my help. Jack Forge does not like to let a lady down. Well, of course not. But you found something else instead? Yeah. On Abel's phone. - Hey, Fusco. - Lionel, I need to speak Forge. Detective Forge. My partner tells me you see a link between my homicide and some suicide you're working? Yeah. Abel Mindler. He was a truck driver, and Van Hess worked at the Port Authority handling all incoming shipping, so - So you're thinking smuggling, right? - Yeah, yeah, yeah. And I called Abel's old trucking company. One truck is missing. Now Van Hess is dead. What if Abel wasn't a suicide? Jack Forge does not believe in coincidence. Hold on. That's the victim's phone. - Yeah. - Where's the tag? Evidence tag. The tag fell off. Yeah, Lionel, it fell off. Can I talk to you for a second? Excuse us. Could you take it easy on the guy? - The guy isn't a cop. - I know. But he thinks he's working a case, and he's gonna get himself killed. So play nice. What? Hey, sexy. Oh, come on, big man. You've got to eat. Harold. Bear's gone all Belgian supermodel on me and he won't eat. - What's wrong? - I think he misses you. Okay, put him on. Who's a good boy? You are, Bear. Now, eat your breakfast. Okay? Oh, uh, one more thing. That guy Abel Mindler's phone the maybe-not-suicide I was telling you about. Can I recover the deleted texts? Well, not from the SIM card if it's damaged the way you say it is. Try the cloud. - The cloud? - Tweets, Friendczar pages, Angler messages. They never go away. We have finally achieved immortality, Sameen. Even when our bodies die, our personal data lives on in cyberspace forever, whether you like it or not. I have to go. Well, where were we? Oh, yes, I was about to reveal to you your misunderstanding of deep learning. I built my company on my misunderstanding of deep learning. You're a sponsor of the conference. You must be doing well. I will be if I can get this angel investor interested. Look at the time. Perhaps we should head back to the hotel. If you admit I won the argument. Are you really as suspicious of artificial neural nets as you pretend? - I trust people more than machines, that's all. - That's an odd thing for a scientist to say. I'm not a scientist. - I'm an economist. - Liar. Favorite equation? Come on, I know you have one. - Pythagorean identity. - Okay. - I knew you'd disagree. What's yours? - Euler's identity. - It's so beautiful. - Beautiful? Yeah. At first, you don't realize the implications. And then it hits you. It's the five most important constants. E, I, one, zero And pi. Yeah. All linked together. It's like the secrets of the cosmos distilled into a a sonnet. Perhaps you're right, after all. Why, Harold. - Money. Give that. - Hey! Hey. Please. Here. Just take it. Oh, my God. Elena, it's Abel. I think I'm in trouble. Call me. Hi, Walter. Hello, how are you? You're beautiful. Way to go, Walter. Van Hess, it's Abel. What the hell am I moving? This box says "HE rounds." Call me. I'm opening the other crates. Crap. - Yeah? - Reese I know what Abel and Van Hess were smuggling. Guns that use high-explosive rounds. Into New York? - Walter's at work. I'm on my way now. - Yeah, me too. - Hello? - Detective Forge, we need to talk. Hello, Walter. Hey! Shut up. Get in. What the hell? Hi, Walter. Down, Walter. - What's that? - A gun. A big one. Let's go. Oh, my God. Run. They're trying to kill me, not you. - This reminds me of Kabul. - On a bad day. Who the hell are these people? No, the question is, who are you? Because you sure as hell aren't a cop. Heh. Oops. Let's go. Where are we? Somewhere we can't be watched. - What? - You're like a freaking superhero. No, I'm not. Yeah, you are. Nice. Lionel, you are so lucky. Now we know what Van Hess and Abel Mindler smuggled in. Question is how many? What is it? - Barrett XM109. - Barrett XM109. State-of-the-art next-generation weapon. - Stop it. - HE rounds. High explosive, used only in anti-materiel weapons. Shreds a bulletproof vest like paper. Bulletproof limo too. A weapon like this could wreak havoc on the city. How do you do that with your voice? Do what? - Nothing. - All right, so who's our big bad, huh? The guy who hired Abel and Van Hess and killed them. The man who called you on Abel's phone, could you tell anything about him? - Yeah, he was really, really scary. - Wow. Good detective work. You must know something. Walter, those men, they tried to abduct you, not kill you. Yeah, well, it felt pretty kill-y to me, okay? I'm sorry, guys, I don't know anything. I'll trace the calls Walter got. I'm taking this back to the 8th. So, what are we doing? This sucks. - No offense. - It's for your safety. Come on. Hey, hey, a police scanner. This is the new kind, right? You know, I used to listen to these scanners every night. It'd help me fall asleep. A couple years ago, there was this I don't know, this vigilante, I guess you'd call him. He protected people. Yeah, drove the cops nuts, though. They called him the man in the suit. I'm gonna lock this door. Don't worry. By the way, your girlfriend is amazing. Sameen. Not my girlfriend. Wait, why not? - That son of a bitch took my laptop. - I'm so sorry. - I'm calling the police. - Oh, please don't do that. You see, that man took my passport. - Identification. - We can go to the consulate tomorrow. I'd prefer not to involve the police. You see, I have a visa problem. The HKP won't care, I promise. Ms. Bridges. Beth. Please don't call the police. - All right. - Besides, maybe they're just not needed. I know where that man works when he's not mugging people. - How? - There was a placard on his motorbike. Here, I can draw you the characters. God, you have a good eye. Apparently, stress improves memory. Okay, sure. It means "Curry Leaves." It's a restaurant. Motorbike was a delivery guy. Let's go. You realize this is insane. We better hurry. Got Walter secured. You good? Good? I'm herniated. This super gun is super heavy. No luck tracing those calls to Walter. Whoever it is really knows their stuff. They bounced that call before it got to our boy. - And? - Worse news. I found another deleted text from Abel the truck driver. That gun we recovered? It's a prototype. Abel and Van Hess brought in 20 crates last week. That's 100 of those guns. And we've got no idea who's got them. - How you doing? - How's it going? Detective Fusco. I needed to check this in. No problem, detective. I need you to sign here and here. Hello there. You must be Walter. Nate Elliot, FBI. It's good to meet you. Detective Riley seems to think that you might be able to help us with this gun smuggling case. Well, I'm always happy to help the law. Okay. Let's go. Walter? - Gun. Everyone down. - Get down, get down! Sorry, detective, he's coming with us. Everyone back. - John. - Drop your weapon. John. Agh! - Are you all right? - What the hell is going on? Elias. Come on. Elias sending his men. He looking to start a war? Are you sure you're all right? My mother always said I had a hard head. - Don't worry, I'll get Walter to the safe house. - Meet you there. I have to see an old friend. Tell me where Elias is. I'm texting you an address. Come alone. There's no need for that, sir. Mr. Elias is expecting you. This way. Hello, John. See anything you like? Grand theft assaulting a police officer, attempted kidnapping? Give me one good reason why I shouldn't take you out right now. I'll give you three. All pointed at your head. Let's take a walk, shall we? I have to tell you, I'm disappointed, John. As a friend. You seem to forget who I am. A man with business interests. Like guns? No. No, no, no. This establishment belongs to my friend, Ricardo. Personally, I don't care much for the illegal gun trade. But someone has to keep it under control. Otherwise, this city turns into Chicago. Chicago's a mess. It's like a damn Tarantino movie out there. You and I have a problem. You tried to grab up my witness. - Twice. - No, just once, at the precinct. The other attempt was the Armorer. - The Armorer? - He's not important. What's important is that I speak with your witness. You seem to forget who I am. Now, you tell me about this Armorer. He's a weapons man from Chicago. He brought in 100 of these next-gen guns by leveraging a Port Authority supervisor. - Banks Van Hess. - Yeah. He hired a driver by the name of Abel Mindler to transport them. Yes. But Abel Mindler was an honest man. And once he realized what he was carrying, he dumped the truck with the guns. The truck. The truck. It's still missing. Those weapons are still out there somewhere. Which is why the Armorer sent men to have a chat with Abel Mindler, but it went awry. Abel had a nasty fall trying to escape them. It's hard to find good help these days. But now your man knows where the truck is, John. It's gotta be why the Armorer is after him. And it's why you're gonna bring Walter Dang to me. That's not gonna happen. He should have come out to deliver by now. Maybe they're backed up. I realize why you disagree with my work, by the way. - Oh? - You don't feel the end justifies the means. I don't know. I know what it means to build something troubling because in the end, it might help people. And I know what it means to regret it, so I suppose you could say, it depends. Are you having second thoughts about what we're doing here? Excuse me. Where are our things? There. We should run. So where's this safe house? It's close. John's on his way. So listen, let me ask you a question. How long have you been working with him? My partner? Couple months. No, I don't mean Detective Riley. I mean John. I mean, you know, secret identity. A few years, right? Right here in New York? I wanted to ask you about that. Yeah, Fusco. I know why people are after Walter. It's not what he knows, it's what he has. - Abel's phone. - The phone. What phone? Abel ditched the truck with the guns, but his phone kept a record of the GPS coordinates. Walter, you've basically got a treasure map in your pocket. - Come on, we need to get you inside. - You move and we take your boy apart. The phone. Where's Mindler's phone? Move an inch, I'll blow your head off. John! Come on. I think it missed a major blood vessel, Shaw. But your deltoid is gonna hurt like hell. Damn, why couldn't Finch be here playing games? He's not, so wanna tell me where I'm going? The bad guys got the phone, they'll use it to find the guns. And when they do, Walter will be one dead fake cop. - Ow. - Baby. Okay, the Armorer has the phone but we have the backup of his cell phone GPS coordinates. I'm sending you there now. Keep going north. They're all here, boss. All 20 cases. Yeah, it's me. We're in business. We have the guns. That means I don't need you anymore. Do it. No. No, no, no. Drop your weapons. Gentlemen. Crap. Finish it. No! God. - It's about time you showed up. - You're welcome. John. Aah! I got you shot. I let you down. I'm sorry. Here. You did good. Nice try. So you were the Armorer. It's a pleasure. Those guns would've changed the balance of power in my city. Did you think I'd let that happen? He's smarter than you, old man. You're not the one behind this. Well, that's good. That's good. Tell me who it is. You tell me now, I'll put you on a helicopter and save your life. You get to live. Screw you. - Sorry. - No, that's all right. I know who it is. Am I gonna die? You got shot in the arm, not the head. Agh! That was so awesome. Ow! What happened? - Don't say it. No, don't say it. - It It's just a scratch. So, Mr. Dang, on behalf of the N.Y.P.D I would like to thank you for helping us take down a dangerous gun smuggler. Wow. Just a second. I need to speak with you. So, Walter what you've seen with me and my other friends Don't worry. Nobody would believe me, anyway. Hey, listen, that vigilante I heard about. The man in the suit. I didn't tell you the rest. He disappeared a few months ago and crime went up. Violence. Killings. The city needed somebody to keep up the fight, so I figured, why not me? But, you know, me kind of sucks. So I invented Detective Forge. All because the man in the suit went away. But I was wrong, wasn't I? He wasn't really gone at all. Goodbye, Walter. Hi. I wanna talk to you about Abel. Okay? - Okay. - Come on. It's time we had a chat about your truck. Elias. Dominic. You're a hard man to find. Where are they? Don't play, old man. You know why I came. The guns are gone for good. My friend at the N.Y.P.D. agreed to personally supervise their destruction. Your friend, John Riley? - How many did you bring? - Snipers, three. Plus, the Barrett gun prototype about a half-mile that way. I kept that one for myself. Guess I should be flattered. Some underestimate you. I don't. You created the Armorer. A figurehead to take the fall for you if the gun deal went bad. Is that what I did? This is the second time you've seen fit to interfere with my business. You should've stayed on the ground. Years ago, back before the ice breakers this water would freeze over in winter sometimes, all the way across. - It looked quiet, almost dead, but it wasn't. - No? No, no. Just hidden for a while. But after its winter period, it would roar back to life. The water flowing so fast, an unwary man could drown. So spring time is here, is that it? I have never interfered in your business, Dominic, I have only conducted my own. You'd do well to stay clear. A man is not a river and you are not a king. Harold, what are you doing next month? Why? I have to be in New York. Angel investor nonsense. I thought maybe we could have a coffee. I would like that. Try not to get mugged until then. You're sure you installed it in her computer? Quite sure. What were you thinking? Knocking me about like that? You're being well-compensated. You're well rid of that woman. She's a bitch. Don't call her that. Our business is finished. Go. And have you enjoyed Hong Kong? - Yes. The conference was interesting, thanks. - Gave me a few thoughts on Phase One. - Indeed. I'll present them to you when we meet in New York. Get your checkbook ready. We're very eager to meet you. See you in a month. Morning, sir. Just wanted to give you a quick report on Asia. The startup in Guangzhou and the factory in Mumbai. Oh, yes. And the seed money for the new company in Tokyo. Elizabeth Bridges. The Samaritan is becoming very interested in her algorithms. Why? I have no idea.
We are being watched. The government has a secret system. A machine that spies on you every hour of every day. I designed the machine to detect acts of terror, but it sees everything. Violent crimes involving ordinary people. The government considers these people irrelevant. We don't. Hunted by the authorities, we work in secret. You will never find us. But victim or perpetrator, if your number's up, we'll find you. Come on. Any second, guys. Not a good time, Harold. It never is these days, Ms. Shaw. It's not as if Professor Whistler doesn't have a stack of abysmal midterms to grade. My situation is slightly more time-sensitive. - And yet, numbers keep coming. - Amateurs. Our newest irrelevant is named - Ms. Shaw, is that gunfire? - Well, I told you I was busy. I'm gonna need you to call up that shadow map and access the N.Y.P.D. dispatch feeds. Go, go, go! All units, pursuit in progress. Black sedan. Lost them. Last seen on westbound 116. Dispatch, 10-48. No sign of them here. Whoo! Nice. Yo, hottie. Up top. We had a deal, remember? You get out in time, or I walk. So now this happens. - Oh, God. - Sorry, Romeo. I think we just broke up. N.Y.P.D. just found your getaway car by the East River. Hope they can't trace it back to you. Be a shame if I had to slap the cuffs on. Well, it'd be a shame for you if you tried. Now, who's our boy? Tomas Koroa dual U.S.-Spanish citizen, spends part of each year here on a B1 visa. - Doing what? - International wine dealer. Divides his time between New York, London, Paris, and Dubai. Now, fair warning, this Saint Emilion is gonna make you both want to quit your jobs and run away to Bordeaux. A lot of travel, importing foreign goods. Maybe he's wrapped up in smuggling. It's possible, but I didn't see anything fishy when I bluejacked his phone. Well, then maybe business isn't his problem. A guy like that could have a girl in every port. Maybe infidelity's about to spank him on the ass. I'm just trying to identify the threat, John. You just go play detective. I can keep an eye on Tomas. I noticed. All right, what about Finch? Shouldn't he be digging up Tomas's digital footprint? He will, but he had other business to attend to first. We're all two people now, remember? Mmm. If you play nice then after you will have the ice creams, yes? - Yes. - Okay. Lovely children. Not yours, I hope? Relax, Harold. I'm just the nanny. My sixth new identity in two weeks. A necessary precaution, I imagine after your close call with Samaritan's operatives during the election. Necessary, but exhausting. French Mary Poppins Barbie is the only me that's been any fun. I'm not sure how the parents would feel if they knew how many people I've killed. So why are we here? The machine just told me to come to this playground and follow your plan. Then let's hope it's a good one. Nicholas Dawson. Samaritan's undemocratically elected choice for governor. Are we bringing him down? Unfortunately, now that Samaritan has sent Mr. Greer to make contact we can't risk going anywhere near our new governor. But we can work to undermine every single thing he tries to do. And one of Dawson's first acts as governor was to approve a $12 million grant for that man. Jared Wilkins, software engineer, Two weeks ago, Wilkins left a lucrative job in the tech sector to found a new charity called OTPS. - Which stands for? - No one seems to know. OTPS has no office, no website. We need to find out what he plans to do with that money and put a stop to it. Daddy, I made a boom-boom. Okay. Um Okay, just, uh, go ahead and Wait. Hold on, hold on, hold on. Just, uh Don't sit. Um No. Come on. And now I know why I'm a nanny. Hello. Whoa. Oh! Excuse me. Uh It seems to me as if you might need some assistance, yes? Okay, so that's six cases of Albarino, Next time I'm in Reims, I'm sending you those chocolates. And how is Mr. Koroa fairing, Ms. Shaw? Any sign of the threat? In four hours, Tomas has barely gone 900 feet. He just keeps moving from one restaurant to the next blabbing about wine. The only thing keeping me awake is his personality. Indeed. Hang on a sec. It's the girl who checked him out this morning. Tomas may have a tail. Same workmen from this morning too. That's not a tail. We're looking at some kind of a hit squad. On second thought this may not be that kind of hit. Ten seconds, nine eight, seven six, five four, three two, one. Looks like we're not the only ones leading double lives, Finch. Tomas isn't a wine dealer, he's a thief. And a damn good one. In and out in under 10 seconds. Perfect smash-and-grab. Our boy Tomas really knows what he's doing. Perhaps you could try not to sound quite so enthused. Crime is my day job. I'm just admiring his technique. Domain Awareness caught the robbery, but no camera saw Tomas and his crew getting into the car, which was reported stolen two days ago. So the cops haven't ID'd him yet? I'm fairly certain the N.Y.P.D. isn't the only agency trying to find them. Their modus operandi matches that of a highly successful team of thieves that the INTERPOL has dubbed "The Hole in the Wall Gang" for obvious reasons. In the past seven years, Tomas and his team have hit over 50 high-value targets on four continents. So Tomas is a real bad boy. Which means that he is probably our perpetrator. A guy like this might be willing to kill to take down his next score. Or our target might be someone who already knows Tomas's secrets. Marko Jevtic was the only member of Tomas's crew to ever get caught. Picked up by the police after a robbery in Prague. Ten hours later, he died in custody under suspicious circumstances. So maybe Tomas isn't above bumping off one of his own. Well, they're not the most trustworthy bunch. Max Dahlgren and Henrik Lengfelder both had well documented issues with authority. And Katya Rodchenko has a long history of drug abuse. It appears that we have inadvertently captured a group of notorious criminals. Should we turn them over to INTERPOL and call it a day? We're here to stop violence, okay? Not recover stolen jewels. If we move before we know what he's up to this thing could go sideways and we won't stop it. - Plus, she won't get to look at him anymore. - Are you trying to make me kill you? Let's try to stay focused on the murder that Mr. Koroa is poised to commit. To uncover his plans, we would need to have a man on the inside or in this case, a woman. I have a reservation for a penthouse suite. Whoa, easy, Bear. He's trained to smell drugs. Sit. Stool. Stil. Yeah. N.Y.P.D., ma'am. I'm gonna need to take a look at your bag. Enjoy yourself. I have nothing to hide. You sure about that? Told me she wasn't using anymore. - Now we have a problem. - Guess what, Shaw? Tomas has a problem and you're the solution. I'll reach out to my contacts and set up a meeting. No, no, no, there's nothing to worry about. We are going to make this happen. Trust me, this will be nothing short of a revolution. With the governor, we have the power I'm in. I've got him on the baby monitor. And you should have signal now, Harold. I take it you had no trouble ingratiating yourself with Mr. Wilkins and his son? Oh, Sebastian's an angel. Just a little free spirit who needs his creativity nurtured. His dad, on the other hand, is a little more Type-A. When OTPS starts generating results, you're gonna wanna be on board. Any luck finding out what his fraudulent charity is really up to? Patience, Harold, or I'll have to give you a time-out. We are ready to go right now. Okay, we're in. It'll take me just a minute to locate Oh, my. it turns out that Mr. Wilkins' charity may not be so fraudulent after all. OTPS stands for One Tablet Per Student. A plan to issue free tablet computers to every elementary-school student in the state. For just $20 each, we can give every single child a computer to call their own, loaded with educational software. Software provided by Samaritan. A tablet in every home and a camera pointed at the face of every child while Samaritan controls everything they see, learn, think. Speak of the devil. Something just started hacking my phone. Samaritan. It's coming through Wilkins' computer. Get out of there now. Veronique, I'm off the phone. How are you and Sebastian getting? Pretty. Take the gun out of your purse and put it in my hand. And the one on your thigh. I heard you did a job for the O'Bannons in Dublin. If I were to call Paddy McCann about you will he say good things? Probably not, since Paddy died two years ago. But you can call Enzo Capizzi in Sicily or you can check up on the work I did for McCauley's crew in L.A. Or you can just quit wasting your time and we can talk business. I can see why Romeo recommended you so highly. Nothing unlocks doors like a beautiful woman. Ooh. He's hot. I mean, not hood-and-zipties-and-a-CIA- safe-house-with-10-hours-to-kill hot, but - Bartender, two champagnes. - l kind of get it. Root, what the hell are you doing? Harold wanted me off the streets for a while after my latest brush with Samaritan, so I thought I'd help keep an ear on you. He is a dangerous criminal after all and I just couldn't bear it if anyone hurt you. I mean, besides me. - So, heh - Coming right up. what do you need me for? I can think of several things. - Mm. Subtle. - I'll bet. But, uh, for now, let's just keep it professional. Now, I'm willing to guess that last night's job was a test to check the N.Y.P.D.'s response time which means that you have something bigger lined up. See, now that was subtle. So are you ready for another score? That, not so much. Maybe. But I'm not the kind of man who likes to rush. A perfectly planned job is a kind of seduction. Hours looking, wanting turning your target around in your mind. And then you move closer brushing past making contact just to see what will happen. And when everything's ready and when everything is right all of that preparation pays off in one sudden, intense, crushing moment. He's good. But a line like that would never work on a trained operative like Do you wanna get out of here? Heh. Okay now, this is sexy. Plans for your next conquest? Maybe. Maybe not. Gentlemen, we have a decision to make. One of us got arrested today. It's just a drug charge, but our operation could be compromised. Everything about her checks out. There's no way to know if she's working with the police or not. This next job comes with a very high risk factor. It also comes with a very high reward. The client who hired us is paying $2 million each for the jewels inside of a single vault. So do we trust her and take the score? Or do we walk away and get rid of the evidence? I say, let's go for it. Then let's get to work. The plan's ready to go. All we need is you. Okay, so when were you planning on doing this? Twenty minutes. Excuse me. Are you the concierge? - Yes. How may I help you, Miss? - Stevens. I have some jewelry that well, it costs slightly more than this hotel, and I don't think I'll sleep well if it's in that little safe in the room. Could you offer me anything more secure? Of course. I'd be happy to store your items in the hotel's vault. And I don't suppose I could see this vault first, could I? The bars are high-carbon steel, locked at all times. The vault itself, it's, uh Back up. Now. Now. Cameras are dead. Footage of you is being erased. You really think you can crack that before the cops get here? Cute, but that's gonna make one hell of a noise. All right, good to go. It's Veteran's Day and we're three blocks away from the celebration at the Intrepid. You're pretty proud of yourself right now, huh? Hmm. Let's see the ride here tripped the relockers, so the front door's dead but the friction with the concrete ground down the backplate, exposing the welds. Clever boy. Let him play. Your work is done. We have yet to prevent a murder but we can add another grand larceny to our list of accomplishments. I'm hacking the hotel security to determine precisely what jewels you've stolen. Perhaps they're so valuable that Tomas is willing to betray a client and kill his teammates just to keep them. - Hi, Shaw. How's your date? Something's wrong here, Finch. Something's wrong indeed. The only item in that vault was placed there yesterday by a guest of the hotel, Dr. Juilianna Petrova a researcher at the CDC. She's an expert on Level 4 infectious diseases. Ms. Shaw, I'm no longer certain that you were stealing jewels. I'm kind of thinking maybe Tomas isn't the perpetrator after all, Finch. Go. Place is clear, Shaw. No sign of Max or Henrik. Six years I've been working with those two. Six years and they turn on me like that. Any sign of the loot? Who you talking to? Where the hell are we? I checked your address, this isn't it. Right now the only address you need is the whiskey in that cabinet. So make mine a double. Yours too. Inside the safe there was a metal case with, uh, "Marv" on the label. Marv? Well, whatever it was, Tomas's buddies have it now. Oh, dear. This is bad. This is very, very bad. Those labels don't say "Marv," they say "MAR-V," as in Marburg Virus a viral hemorrhagic fever with a mortality rate approaching 90 percent. It's like Ebola's evil twin. Dr. Petrova was in Uganda collecting samples of the virus but due to the outbreak of Ebola in Western Africa her request to ship them to the CDC was denied by Homeland Security. Rather than lose months of research Dr. Petrova chose to smuggle them into the U.S. illegally. And now somebody stole them. If it makes you feel better, Dr. P. is freaking out about it. She just turned herself in to her bosses at the CDC. It'd be difficult to overstate the degree to which we don't need 10 vials of Marburg floating around New York City. We have to find the virus and the people who stole it. Fast. Okay. I'll track down Max and Henrik. But we need to know who they're working for. It was probably the same client who hired Tomas in the first place. Nobody else knew about the robbery. Plus, playing those two to kill Tomas is cheaper than paying all three. Well, it is. So who's your client? Heh. Who's yours? You're not just a thief and you're definitely not working alone so why should I even trust you? You wanna talk about trust, huh? Uh, you just stole a very dangerous virus for some very dangerous people. I never would've done that if I knew what I was taking. I'm not a saint, but some things are too far. Even for a man like me. Well, I doubt your client has the same high moral standards. - I need a name. - Never got one. Anonymous e-mails, payments by one-time wire transfer. It's better for everyone if we don't use names. But I'm gonna find the bastard behind this. I'm gonna steal those vials back. And I'm gonna make him pay. You in? What do you think? And I have a friend who can make those anonymous e-mails way less anonymous. So this is where the magic happens. Rented 10,000 square feet of office space and filled it with state-of-the-art 3D printers. Almost all the 12 million went to paying for these but once they're up and running we'll be making all the tablets right here in New York. That's a prototype. Just imagine giving one of those to every kid in the state. Amazing. I'll tell the governor our grant money is in good hands. Why are you guys putting up cameras? I'm from the public relations office, Jared. Governor wants a time-lapse of your tablets being made to put on our website. Or an evil Al wants to keep a close eye on its baby brainwashers. Our intrusion into Wilkins' computer must've put Samaritan on alert. Making it that much more difficult to do what we must. Difficult, but we'll find a way in. But first, we'll need to go shopping. Any progress finding the virus, Mr. Reese? Well, I tracked down Max and Henrik. But I don't think they're gonna talk. I searched their bodies. No phones, no wallets. And no sign of the virus. So it would seem that Tomas is not the only one that this client double-crossed. Well, if these guys knew who he was maybe someone else does too. You waste my time. A drug charge is podrbka. You'll never make it stick. I won't have to. See, it's a homicide investigation now. You wouldn't wanna tell me about your friend Tomas, would you? I've been here since yesterday. I have nothing to do with his death. I never said he was the one who died. The homicide I'm working it's a double. See, whoever hired you three to take out Tomas this is how they settled the check. Now, if I were you, I'd like to be sipping on a nice glass of champagne on the first flight to nowhere, instead of a sitting duck in a jail cell. But, heh, maybe I'm wasting your time. I like Tomas. But business is business. What was the deal? A half a million extra each for me, Max and Henrik Tomas cracks the vault and - Well, that was the plan, anyway. - Plan? Whose plan? Who was the client? It was like the rest of the job. One-time wires, no-name e-mails. But whoever he was, he knew everything. He knew Tomas was the only person to pull off a plan like this. He also knew Tomas wouldn't have done it if he knew what he was stealing. And he knew for the right price, you three would turn on a friend. Okay, Harold. Ahem. Why are we here? It's breadcrumbs, Ms. Shaw. My attempts to trace the e-mails and wire transfers provided by Tomas and Katya have yet to reveal their client's identity. But yesterday the client wired money to pay for storage at that address. Knight and Morris, the oldest and most secure storage facility in New York. Housing everything from priceless heirlooms to Renaissance art. In their 95-year history, they have never been robbed. They are, simply put, a fortress. Of course that's where the vials are now. But to locate them precisely, we still need to know the client's name. Son of a - Marko. - Marko? Marko Jevtic? The partner that died in Prague? - Wait, didn't you kill that guy? - I've never killed anyone. We tried to spring Marko out after he got caught, but it was too risky. So either he's a really well-preserved corpse or he escaped by faking his own death. Marko thinks we left him to rot, and this whole double-cross is his revenge. Revenge or not, Jevtic is in possession of a deadly virus. And I would very much like to know what he intends to do with it. My buyer just transferred half the money. We get the rest when the package is delivered. We move at midnight. So that gives us less than six hours to figure out how to rob this place. We have another problem, Harold. I'm looking at an operative from the relevant side. A government agent? Are you certain? How do you know? Because I trained him. Devin Grice, Crimson 6 Alpha. I know him and his partner. And now that Marko has the virus, this whole damn thing just went relevant. Uplink's good, NSA feeds online. You ever miss the old days, Brooks? - The old system. - Why? Research 2.0 targets more threats than the old system ever did. That's just it. Back then, we did the targeting. Had to scrutinize our own intel, think for ourselves. When we lit up a target, we knew why. Now a set of numbers to investigate, and we just get numbers to kill. You don't think that's strange? We don't get paid to think, Grice. And Control wouldn't like what you're saying. You remember what happened to Indigo 5, right? I heard Shaw lived to fight another day. Nobody lives. And no good comes of asking questions. Our orders are to eliminate all targets and destroy every last drop of this virus. We strike at 2200. But if the relevant side is taking care of the virus, perhaps our work here is done. Now that Samaritan is providing relevant numbers to the government any encounter with those operatives could easily escalate into a run-in with Samaritan's agents. Why expose our operation to unnecessary risk? Because I know how the relevant side works. I know Grice and Brooks. After they kill Marko and his men, they're gonna track down everyone involved in stealing the virus and they're gonna kill them too. Now, Tomas is trying to make this right. He may be a criminal, but he doesn't deserve to die. And isn't that what we're here for? To save his life? She's got you there, Finch. Besides, the Soviets messed around with weaponizing Marburg. The Americans never did. You really want the relevant side to get their hands on that virus or let them turn it over to Samaritan? The only way to make sure those vials get destroyed is to do it ourselves. Fine, we'll commit your felony. But, unfortunately, I have another criminal act to attend to first. Ms. Groves, I'm on my way. Good. Wilkins is about to leave for the night. And now we are cooking. Nice work, you guys. First batch should be done by morning. Samaritan's blind, Harold. You're up. Accessing the system. I'll need about 10 minutes. I got a text offering me 3000 bucks if I can fix your Internet in the next five minutes? I don't wanna rush you, Harold, but I think Samaritan's onto us. Surprisingly, Ms. Groves, that does not help me concentrate. Harold? I'm about to do something you're not gonna like. No need. I'm done. Okay, get in, get the virus, get out. I got a job in Barcelona next month. If we live through this, you should join me. I already have a job. It's weird, and the pay sucks but we could use a guy like you. I'm in position, Ms. Shaw. I've circumvented the building's firewall and accessed their security. Ready when you are. Command, we're in, uh, the middle of something. We're aware, Crimson 6, but new orders just came through. You are instructed to eliminate all targets and secure the vials. Our orders were to destroy that virus, not You are to secure the vials and turn them over intact to a contact already en route. - Contact for whom? - That's need-to-know, Crimson 6. Do you acknowledge? Repeat, do you acknowledge? Acknowledged. We're not on camera, are we, Finch? Not yet. And you should know that you're not alone. Our friends from the relevant side are in the building. Which means Central Command will be running OPSEC from a remote location. If you see us, so will they. That's why I'm looping the security feeds to cover your tracks. Marko's vault is fifth on your left. And please work quickly, the others aren't far behind. Not bad. Now, how are those magic fingers gonna open that one? - Hm. - Heh-heh. Sorry, my friend. But unlike you, I don't leave important things behind. I knew you would come for these, Tomas. Just like I knew you'd never be bold enough to steal them if you really knew the score. Which is convenient. You see, my buyer wants the virus delivered right here in New York City. And who better to start a pandemic than two healthy human hosts? We were planning to get you out, Marko, but we got word that you died. - If I had known that - You know how painful it is to fake your own death? What the toxins that simulate cardiac arrest do to your health? This will be worse. I hate to trouble you, Ms. Shaw, but your counterparts from the relevant side are about to turn this perilous situation into something dangerously chaotic. So it may get a bit loud. Now, John. What the? - Who are these guys? - Trained government assassins with orders to kill. It's not cool you ask me to do this stuff with you, man. Not cool. Admit it, we're not bad together. You're just saying that because I saved your ass. Come on. You and me, Barcelona a score worth 1.6 mil, you sure you won't come? You, me, here, no pay we both eventually wind up dead, are you sure you won't stay? Ms. Shaw and Mr. Koroa are leaving, John. And considering that the police are en route now might be a good time for you to make your exit too. Freeze. Shaw? Go. Go. I had a call about a fire on the second floor, Suite 205, the 3D printers. - Are they okay? - The whole building's trashed, buddy. No. No, no, no. Eleven-point-two million up in smoke. I doubt the governor could give him more money without attracting attention Samaritan doesn't want. By now the worm I planted will have destroyed every last copy of Wilkins' design. So no tablets for the kids. Mission accomplished. Famous last words. While I was sabotaging the printers, I took a quick look at the tablet's OS. There was maybe one suspicious line of code and I'm not even sure it had any nefarious purpose. Harold, you really think Samaritan was building those things out of the goodness of its own heart? When Castro came to power in Cuba, first thing he did was build schools, good schools, so that the people would love him. I know that Samaritan's motives are amoral at best but the thing that Mr. Wilkins was trying to do was an absolute good, and we destroyed it. I'm not sure what we're becoming, and it makes me wonder how much wrong are we willing to do in the name of right? I'm sure not having the machine in your ear anymore sucks and all, but it is pretty great finally being able to sneak up on you. I live to amuse. Where's Tomas? Halfway to Barcelona. He gave me a pretty hard sell trying to get me to go with him and for a hot second, I almost did. But? I guess there are things I care about here. And is that why you came to see me? No. I need you to translate Finch's instructions on how to destroy the virus. Dude never met a five-syllable word he didn't like. Full decontamination. This could take all night. We haven't recovered the virus yet. Are you sure we shouldn't be tracking it down? I got new orders and a list of new numbers to take care of in South America. Nothing good comes out of asking questions. Remember? Go.
We are being watched. The government has a secret system. A machine that spies on you every hour of every day. I designed the machine to detect that acts of terror, but it sees everything Violent crimes involving ordinary people. The government considers these people irrelevant. We don't. Hunted by the authorities, we work in secret. You'll never find us. But victim or perpetrator, if your number's up, we'll find you. I'm going in alone. Academy exercise terminated. Sorry, instructor. You didn't say we couldn't use the fire escape. Guess I can't fault you for painting outside the lines. Sounds like you're enjoying your temporary assignment as a weapons and tactics instructor, Mr. Reese. Lucky the academy was a bit short-handed. And our new number? She doesn't need much instruction. She must be a natural, because Detective Fusco just send me her background check and Silva comes from a middle class family in Rochester bachelor's in criminal justice, Everything's suggesting that she's quite average. - I'd call her unconventional. - Sounds like someone I know. Good work, recruits. Let's clean them, rack them and stack them. Hey, Silva, whose team were you on out there? Excuse me. Broke ranks and the rules, check yourself before your antics cost all of us. Why don't you try pulling your own weight, Dutch-boy? Police are supposed to enforce the rules, not break them. Well, maybe I'm not done breaking things. Easy there, iceman, no need for jealousy. N.Y.P.D. will always need dispatchers. Next time's real weapons with live rounds. Be a shame if there was a training accident. Yeah, watch your back. Our recruit has an enemy inside the class. As if law enforcement wasn't already dangerous enough. Well, if recruit Kane has his way, Silva won't make it that far. Threat looks like a fellow cadet. Forget that meter maid, teach me some of those tactics. - What's in it for me? - I got clean-up. Sure thing, Ortiz. Apparently even an expert marksman like you still has a thing or two to learn about tactics. Iris, are you stalking me? Don't be ridiculous. I just finished teaching a class on the importance of mental health to some new recruits. Maybe you should sit in sometime. That reminds me. Thank you for the endorsement of my instructor position. Well, given the ongoing IA investigation and your recent firing of a weapon inside a police precinct figured it couldn't hurt to get you reacquainted with the rules. You making progress on the excessive-force front? Yes, we are. I'll see you tomorrow morning for your appointment. Bright and early, doc. Still have eyes on our number, Mr. Reese? Yes, and we're about to get ears. Silva. Hey, you coming out with us for a beer? - Can't tonight, got a date. - Yeah, no problem. Maybe another time. Perhaps you should look into Silva's date. I would, Harold, except you're not the only one with homework to grade. Gotta hand off to the night crew. Sounds like Detective Fusco 's gonna have to pick up an extra shift. Samaritan's uncovered evidence that an ISA agent allowed members of a criminal outfit to escape with our virus. Escape from surveillance? One of them has proven to be particularly elusive avoiding cameras and detection. Makes me wonder if he might be related to our underground friends. Of course you want me to track her down. Perfect task for a former investigator for the Hague, don't you think? These crews are audacious, but predictable. They hide in plain sight behind everyday 9-to-5 cover jobs luring them into a false sense of security. - The thing they always forget? - Relationships. No matter who they become or where they hide there will always be the people they meet. The people they love, the people they wrong. All of whom can be leveraged. Good old-fashioned human intelligence. Just need the first thread. Start pulling. Meanwhile, Samaritan will continue to do its part. Our recruit's still waiting on her date. You know, of all my confidential informants, you got the nicest wheels. Just feel lucky I'm not making you pay this C.l. This Este Lauder gig pays like crap if it weren't for the perks. - Perks? - Yeah, the free eyeliner. Well, the five-finger free. You wear makeup? Hey, Maybelline, check this out. I thought wonderboy said that Silva was too busy to join her classmates. Well, apparently she's not too busy to case them. Looks like her date just showed up. - These them? - Those are the targets. You ready to move on this? Say the word. Keep it stealth, stick to the plan. I don't know who Deep Throat is. But I think our recruit is a little more than anti-social. Yeah, I'd say. Sounds like she's planning on taking out the competition. Any updates on Silva's target, Mr. Reese? No, but she's applying her lessons on curb searches. By going through their trash. Any clues on Silva's phone. I've combed through the data. She's collecting personal information on the other recruits. Phone numbers, e-mail accounts, home addresses. Even locker combinations. A mole inside the academy. Just when we flushed out HR. May be searching for recruits who can be blackmailed. Question is who is she working for? Hey, going through the trash? I threw away a receipt. - You missed a good time last night. - Sorry I couldn't make it. Oh, no worries. Maybe we can grab a bite to eat after class tonight. Sorry, I wish I could, but I have an important appointment. - Rain check? - Yeah. No problem. Sounds like Silva has an admirer. I don't think it's mutual. Anything on Silva's date from last night? Shaw and Fusco followed him to the suburbs. Still working on it. Um Deep Throat's a late riser, huh? If he takes any longer I'm gonna ruin this upholstered leather. Heads up, there's our guy. Should we follow him? I put a tracker in that clunker. Plus, I'm betting there's more secrets inside the house. - Come on. - Hey, wait for me. You got 10 minutes. Where is my regular attorney? We had a deal. He got reassigned. Not to worry though. The drug charge won't stick. But we need to review a few things. How did you come to work for Tomas' crew? Attorney-client privilege. And I checked the observation room just in case. Rest assured, no one's watching. You do a few little jobs first. Build a reputation. Then when you're good, you get recommended. At the end of the day, it's all about relationships. You are trusting people with your life. So who recommended you? No names. Not even to lawyers. And what does any of this have to do with my drug case? Unless you wanna risk doing time, we need to be thorough. So I'll ask you again. Who recommended you to Tomas' crew? And who recommended your replacement? You're fired. We weren't done talking. Like you said, Katya, at the end of the day it's all about relationships. There is a guy. His name's Romeo. - Thanks for those tips on tactics. - You're starting to catch on. Anytime. - See you later, Ortiz. - Take it easy. Wait. Not so fast, detective. You missed your appointment this morning. You're being evasive. Sorry about that. How about we Continue building on our progress? Great idea. - It's not a good time. - Would you rather I pull my endorsement of your instructor position? - Yeah, how about a walk and talk. What? Uh Sure, fine. We can start where we left off. Your hero complex. Which men often develop in response to being bullied as a child. Iris, my school didn't have bullies. I kept them in line. Bullying bullies is kind of the very definition of a hero complex. Reese, we got a problem. Silva isn't a recruit, she's already a cop. She's hunting a mole inside the academy. According to her last entry, she already knows who it is. You seem distracted. - There's something else on your mind? - You could say that. Look, I'm not sure what you're running from I'm not running from anything, I'm trying to save someone. Get down. It's all right. Come on. What just happened? You were saying about my hero complex? Boys, we got this wrong. Silva isn't the perpetrator, she's the victim. And our undercover cop's just been outed. What the hell was that all about? Why were they shooting at us? I'll explain it all later. You were following me. You first. Why are you casing your classmates? - I don't have time for this. - I know you're a cop. The tactical course, the way you just handled yourself, this isn't your first rodeo. You've been through the academy before. Yes, I'm a cop. - Internal Affairs? - I've said enough. Why is IA interested in the academy? Is there a mole? Look, right now I need to get to my handler. If I'm compromised, it means he is too. - So we'll call him. - No, nothing digital. I can explain more later but right this second I need to warn him in person. Well, I'm coming as your backup. Just don't get kneecapped like you did in training. Careful, John. If Silva's Internal Affairs, she's not just our number she's a threat to your cover. The RTCC tracked the shooter's SUV to this neighborhood. Tally-ho, he's headed into that community center. This place used to be dump. Someone gave it a fresh coat. Heads up, that guy matches the description of our shooter. Secure texting. Smart. You kids listen up. You tell your mother to catch up on your tuition, you hear? And you, keep your head on the swivel. Them city coveralls be coming to fix them cameras real soon. Yeah, hold up. Get a new ball. That one look like the nut sack on a water buffalo. All right, Meech, I'll see you now. You got it? Good. Meet in an hour. - Mini? - You know that guy? Dominic's muscle. - We have history. - Dominic? So it's the Brotherhood trying to kill an IA cop? - Why would they do that? - To protect their mole. Are you getting all this, Finch? Gang money, winning the local hearts and minds. Yeah, but knowing Dominic, it's the Pablo Escobar version. If he can't win the former, he'll just put two in the latter. How's it going out there? Boys seeing the light, coming over from all them other gangs just like them Trinitarios. They all take a knee when you show them the green. Dominoes are tumbling. - Except one. - Elias. Still some ranks protecting their old lion. Somehow he keeps his pride intact. He's got to have someone, somewhere helping him hold it all together. Gonna take some time before we get some dirt on them Italian boys. That omerta and all, you know. Who says we have to do the digging. This is a strategic war. We gotta play smarter. He's talking one hell of a good game for a gun toter. - What have you got? - Silva gave us the slip. Had help from some damn cop in a suit. You just jeopardized six months of hard work. - Seeing as how you can't do your job - No. I'll make it right. Promise, man. Please. Like I told all of you. We all die in the end. You finish, have the janitor mop up. Man owes me. Finch, I think we underestimated Mini. He just ordered an execution. Oh. Oh, no. Ms. Shaw, we had it all wrong. Mini isn't the guy taking orders he's the one giving them. I'm begging you. Please, Dominic! - Dominic. - That's Dominic? Son of a We have unfinished business. Let's go. - Bring him. We'll mop up elsewhere. - Come on, please. Wait, wait. We can't do this here. One of these kids'll catch a stray bullet. - Dominic, it's me, Meech. - Save it, Ms. Shaw. Something tells me we haven't seen the last of Dominic. - Meech. - All mopped up. But what if that tall cop keeps showing his head. There'll always be cops, just like there'll always be gangsters. And then there are the pawns, chumps caught in the middle. Here you go. Mission complete. - How's that? - Like we agreed. You help my uncle with the drug charges and some work and I steal you the files. - One-time job. - Yeah, one-time job, all right. What about this undercover that's onto me? Let me worry about her. If she's out there, I can't go back to the academy. You just need to lay low until she's out of the picture. I got the perfect place for you to hide. Trinitarios have them up in Spanish Harlem. No one will look for him up there. Time to call in sick for a few days. You got it. Pleasure doing business with you. All that just to steal some files off a computer. Boy right there's my Snowden. Heh. Snowden. Edward Snowden, cleaned the NSA's clock. Yeah, now he's gotta live in Russia. The thing is, Snowden didn't work at the NSA he worked at the satellite office. That's bureaucracies for you. - Grow so big they lose track of things. - I got you. The academy is like a satellite for the N.Y.P.D. Gave you direct access to their computers. You wanna take down Elias, man who took down the five dons you gotta play smarter. Why do all that digging when the police already did it for us. So, what did you steal? This right here is the keys to the castle. We're closed. Girl can't get a whiskey after hours? Thought this was the city that never sleeps. Suppose I could make an exception. Boss doesn't have to know. I don't see any cameras. I am the boss. Really? That your bike out back? Little something I picked up. You ride? They say the first rule of any job is not to spend the money. Your friends out shopping? You are too pretty to be local. What are you? Fed? Don't know how you found me. If you think I'm giving up any of my boys Don't care about nickel-and-dime pals, except one, your former driver. I see. So you got a job that requires a wheelman? Something like that. Well, bad news, sweetheart, I don't know where she is. So then tell me, Romeo, who are you trying to alert? Cell phone jammer. And your pal Elvis behind me, he forgot to load his shotgun. So the king of rock is not gonna make a bit of difference in how this goes down. Huh. Buckshot. Go figure. Sorry to get all Dick Cheney on you. Had they been slugs, you would have lost an arm. - Crazy bitch. - Let's just get to the point. You recommended a wheelman, or should I say a wheelwoman to a smash and grab crew a week ago, where is she? I don't know where she is. We keep things compartmentalized for a reason. It's hard enough to pour a drink with one arm, you wanna lose the other? Where's the wheelman? There's a dating app called Angler. That's how I contacted her. App for relationships? How apropos. Phone. Your handler's drawn some attention. - Howard. - No. Stay here, I'll check it out. - This is my safe house. I have to - You have to maintain your cover. I'll be back. Riley. Homicide. One of our own. Deceased in Detective Howard. Internal Affairs. Took two to the back from this baby. Found it out back, just like an academy training weapon, no? Looks familiar. You got a motive? Theft maybe. Guessing our victim met his Cl's here. No sign of break in. - Do you think one turned on him? - Looks like it. Come on. - What the hell is going on? - Keep walking and don't look back. Why? Where are we going? If Howard's dead, then the hardcopy file in the safe inside the house is the only proof I'm a cop. - Those files are gone. - What? - I'll have to go back in - You can't. Why not? Because Howard was shot with your training weapon. Not only is your only connection to the N.Y.P.D. gone, but you've been framed. No one else knows you're Internal Affairs? Howard's the only one who knew about me and my background. Your background? In high school, I was a runner for a gang. Where I'm from, it's not a choice. Once you're in, it's either knocked up or locked up. - But you got out. - I got arrested. The judge said that if I attended community college, he'll seal my record. Gotta like judges who give second chances. I earned my masters in criminal justice and got into the academy. And one week before graduation, Howard plucked me out. Fixed it like if I had quit. He saw my juvie record and knew I had the perfect background for the next time someone tried to infiltrate the academy. - Mike Laskey. The Russian mole from HR. - Exactly. Then Howard got a tip from the Cl that a gang was gonna put a recruit on the inside. - And who better to spot a gangster than - One of their former runners. Why no electronic record? Howard thought it made our covers look vulnerable. Everything's networked nowadays. Given the HR scandal and hackers He didn't even trust IT techs. - Sorry to be the bearer of bad news. - Who are you? - Detective Fusco from the 8th. - Fusco. Your name sounds familiar. He's my partner, you can trust him. There was an anonymous cash deposit into your savings account yesterday. - Ten grand? - It gets worse. Weapon found at the crime scene traces back to you. - You're wanted for murder. - Of course. They're framing me like their lackey. The frustrating thing's I had him. - Who? - Ortiz, my classmate, he's the mole. - Sure it's Ortiz? - My gun at the crime scene that's not a coincidence, he offered to clean it for me. And then I found this. A receipt for the bodega across the street from where the Brotherhood recruits. Ortiz used his ATM card. I'm gonna find Ortiz and I'm gonna bring his ass in. That's the only way I can prove my innocence. Hang on a second, I'll check with RTCC, see if they can find him. - I suppose I am an RTCC of sorts. - But with less attitude. I've retrieved Ortiz's number from Silva's phone contacts. According to his GO data, he returned to the academy last night after class. - To get Silva's gun. - Not exactly. I was able to pinpoint his movement to the commandant's office. During the time that Ortiz was in that office someone logged onto the commandant's computer using a brute-force password cracker. I suspect that Mr. Ortiz has stolen some files. Why would Dominic enlist a mole to steal files from the police academy? - I'm not sure. - Where's Ortiz now? He's at an abandoned school house in Spanish Harlem. - We'll get him. - I'll look into the stolen files. It may shine a light on Dominic's plans, but first I have an errand to run. The RTCC tracked Ortiz to an abandoned school in Spanish Harlem. The RTCC worked fast. - They're good with computers. - Spanish Harlem, that's Trinitarios territory. Abandoned school's their headquarters, they keep it under heavy guard. Place is a fortress. - Should make retrieving Ortiz fun. - I'll head back to the 8th, check for updates. Wait, Riley, I'm coming. - You're safer staying put. - Let's not forget who shot who in training. She's got a point. Plus I still have a mission to finish, find the mole. Being undercover, days turn into months. Tell me about it. Takes self-reliance. No man's an island. Howard was my confidant. Taught me everything I know. Well, you got a new friend on the force. Thanks. But why are you helping me? I knew a cop like you once, she stood up to corruption. Gave her life to do what was right. Yeah, I heard about that. Were you a part of the HR takedown? I worked undercover with Narcotics when all that went down. I saw that in you IA file. - So you've seen my file? - Yeah. There's one thing that puzzles me, though. Nothing in there about a military background. And I'd swear by the tactics you teach, you were in the service. My first tactics instructor was a Gulf war veteran. Must be where I learned it. Well, we gonna need military tactics where we're going. It's going to be two against 2000. - Ever heard of cover infil-exfil? - Sounds like some special-ops stuff. It is, which is why I brought modifications. And just in case. What the? - A shirt from Ortiz's locker. - Find our mole, boy. Welcome to mi casa. - You police? - Still in the academy. So Dominic's got one on the inside, huh? It's just a one-time job. We're square after this. I never finished high school myself. Could've used this in the joint. So you finished your one job with the Brotherhood, huh? Hey, man, look, I got no beef with Trinitarios. Yeah, but the thing is, we're part of the Brotherhood now. And we have no use for you no more. No! Don't do it, Ortiz. - Easy, kid. - It's been you all along. Pretending to be my friend while planning my murder. Murder? I don't know nothing about no murder. I was just trying to steal some files, I had no choice. I'm afraid that's correct, Mr. Reese. Ortiz's uncle worked for the community center that Dominic runs. An elite defense attorney got him exonerated for a recent drug charge. The uncle was Dominic's leverage. - Dominic forced you to steal the files. - You don't understand. Where I'm from, you only got two bad choices. Well, you still have two bad choices, but only one ends with you bleeding out. It was only supposed to be one job. With the Brotherhood, it's never just one job. That's their alarm. Vmonos, come on. Let's go. Every Trinitario in a 10-blocks radius is gonna come running. - How much ammo you got? - Not nearly enough. - We need to move now. - You're coming with. Got your back. Finch, need a way out. - There's a door in front of you, use that. - Let's go. Let's move this. Grab it. Go, go, go. The door is blocked, we're trapped. Options, Finch. There's a pedestrian access tunnel beneath the pool. But unless you have a jack hammer, I'm out of ideas. I go one, give me the belt. Take cover. That looks dangerous. You first. - What about the dog? - Him? He's SCUBA certified. Let's go. Let's go, kid. That's one way to bathe a dog. Lucky you, when you get downtown, you can skip the first shower. - Your mole won't be too hard to break. - Wanna teach me some interrogation tricks? Something tells me you're a natural at that too. Speaking of, I still have a few questions for you. But I'll save them. - You're gonna do all right, kid. - I know. Had a good instructor. - Tell your friends at IA. - Will do. And call me if you need a little tactical refresher. Thought I told you to get rid of Ortiz. You weren't here, man, you didn't see what went down. Guy in a suit, a chica and a crazy-ass dog came storming in here like SWAT. The thing about a battle plan is it only works if soldiers follow orders. Who died and made you general? You ain't nothing but a street banger like the rest of us. - You know anything about circles? - Circles, what they gotta do with this? Got everything to do with it. I had a math teacher once, he said all the world's infinite possibilities rest within this one simple circle. Including the possibility that the big, quiet kid in the back of the class the one that everyone always underestimated can one day run the streets of New York. So, what's stopping you? What's stopping me is this Detective Riley. Our circles keep overlapping. Why you worried about a stupid cop, when you got Trinitarios on board? This ain't about numbers or corner-boys or turf this here is about cutting down the old lion and ruling his kingdom but that can't happen if guys don't follow orders. Guys like that don't have a place. You might wanna rethink that. Not like you walked in here with numbers. I just told you, this ain't about numbers. You the number two? Don't you think about it, pal. Don't you think about it. We all die in the end. Better to go out on top. Hey, I'm talking to you. Hey, no! No! No! Heard you helped Internal Affairs uncover a mole in the academy. The mole confessed, cleared Silva's name and fingered Howard's killer, but no one can find him. About the other day, we need to talk. - What do you mean? - When bullets started flying and you swooped in and played superhero. Right place at the right time, I guess. I suppose. So either violence follows you around, or you just have the most impeccable timing. Either way, I'm glad you were there. This mean you're gonna recommend closing my IA case? Let's just say I'm looking forward to our next session. - Are these the files that Dominic stole? - That's just a small portion. Looks like N.Y.P.D. intelligence on a criminal network. Information that it took the police years to collect and yet Dominic steals it in less than 48 hours. And I finally figured out the common denominator. Which is? Our new number. Any insider tips on eyeliner? Yeah, you might try dialing it back a bit, sister. Sorry, you just look like you buy a lot of makeup. You know what, how about some free samples? You keep samples in your purse? I won't tell if you won't. You've gotta be kidding me. Ex-boyfriend? More like ex-pain in the ass. Is target present? Huh. Visual update on target. No worries, I found her.
Of course you want me to track her down. Shaw, we had it wrong. He isn't the guy taking orders. He's the one giving them. Please, I'm begging you. Please, Dominic. Dominic. You wanna take down Elias you gotta play smarter. ls target present? No worries. I found her. Your counter could really use some love, hon, and maybe some disinfectant. I'm guessing now would be a good time to ask for that raise, huh? Get on. - Nice parking job. - We're in a camera dead-zone. I'm guessing the psycho blond wasn't there for our free tote-bag promotion. No, your cover's been blown. That's the last of it. You can let go now. I've got her, Harry. Oh, thank goodness. And you're okay, Ms. Shaw? If by "okay" you mean "ready to kick some righteous ass." - I thought Samaritan couldn't see us. - It can't, but its operatives can. If I was about to be capped, shouldn't my number have come up? Assuming the machine saw the threat, yes. Fact it didn't suggests we're not the only ones who've learned how to operate in the shadows. Samaritan's agents have as well. Look on the bright side, Sameen. I'm pretty sure you just sold your last tube of luminizer. Indeed. Ms. Shaw, you and Ms. Groves have to avoid all cameras and get back here ASAP. Use the shadow map. Well, that's gonna be tricky, considering we're in a truck with no clue where we're heading. I have your location. And I'm sending assistance. So when we get back to the subway, then what? - We'll keep you safe. - No, I mean, what if we get a new number? Not to worry. I'm sure Mr. Reese can handle anything that comes along. - Reese, have we located our friend? - I have. For a wanted fugitive whose life could be in danger he seems pretty relaxed. Perhaps he wouldn't be if he knew how much information Dominic has on him. Those stolen N.Y.P.D. files contain every member of Elias' organization his business associates, and the structure of his operation. Dominic wants to know his enemy before making a move on him. I have more troubling news. Samaritan's agents have discovered Ms. Shaw. What? - Is she okay? - Yes. She's with Ms. Groves. I told them to come here. Well, where are they now? No, the ladies will have to manage on their own. You need to stay on Elias. He's proved to be a valuable ally during these uncertain times and a principal force keeping Dominic and the Brotherhood in check. He's the devil we know. Yes, and whether we like it or not, we need him. Looks like he's taking a meeting. How are you, Bruce? I recognize that man. His name is Bruce Moran. He's an investment adviser and CPA based out of Brooklyn. Every mobster needs a money guy. Should've let me meet you at your place. You'd have been considerably less visible. - I enjoy the fresh air. - Yeah? Well, don't enjoy it too much. Your concern is noted, Bruce. So how we doing? How are the accounts? Fine, for the most part. Feds are sniffing around again. Should I be concerned? Only if you had somebody other than me handling it. Link. I think we were right about Dominic's intentions. - The Brotherhood is tracking Elias too. - Can't say I'm surprised. Stay close to him, Mr. Reese. We're stopping. Something wrong, officer? Stay in the cab, please. Come on, come on. - Should I ask? - Really wanna know? Honestly, no. Where are we on the shadow map? - We're clear to the end of this block. Let's go. You're all set. John. Again so soon. You flatter me, detective. - It's not a social call, Elias. - No, of course not. - Whose guardian angel are you this time? - Yours. We believe Dominic and the Brotherhood are coming for you. - Really? - Dominic stole a cache of N.Y.P.D. files on you and your organization, and his men have been following you. - So he's studying me. - Oh, he'll do more than that. And you should know by now if I say you're in danger, you are. Oh, I believe you, John. Nevertheless, I think I'm capable of handling the young lion. Like how the old dons thought they could handle you? Thanks for the warning, detective. Give Harold my best. - How you doing, Ricky? - Boss. Guess the young lion's looking to be king. - They're down here. - Is there another way out? If you know me at all, John, you know there's always another way out. - I got it. - You'll need help getting him out of the city. - Out of the city? - It isn't safe for you here. You can't expect me to run. I do that, I send a message to my people that Dominic has won. - I won't help you fight some gang war. - I'm not asking you to. For as many times as you and Harold have asked for my assistance a little reciprocation would be nice. - What do you call me saving your life there? A good start. Now can we go? Come in, come in, please. It's been too long. - Really good to see you, Elias. - You too, Gino. - I hear things are good. - Not bad. Got a couple of high-stakes poker games working, and the bookmaking's rock-steady. Well, you've always been a good earner and a good friend. So, what brings you here? Sadly, an attempt on my life by the Brotherhood. My God, Elias. You okay? Thanks to the intervention of some friends. But this action by Dominic, it requires a response. Whatever you need. You know I got your back. I'm glad to hear you say that, Gino. You okay? You seem a little distracted. I'm still just a little in shock that Dominic would try such a thing. I'm not. No, he's ambitious, intelligent. I get it. I might even see how he could look like a good bet to some people. Easy. Everyone relax. We're just talking. So he got to you. He didn't give me any choice. And you've been out so long, people have started talking. - Saying what? - That you're vulnerable. Well, if he was able to turn you, my dear Gino I can only imagine that he's approached everyone. Do you know if he's gotten to Bruce? I don't. How much time before he gets here? Probably under a minute. We're leaving now. Elias, I was only protecting my business. We'll be seeing you, Gino. Hello, my dear. You have news? - I found Shaw, but she escaped. - Yes. I assume with the help of Ms. Groves. Something else. When I located Shaw, Samaritan couldn't see her, like it was blind. Blind? That would explain their ability to avoid detection. The question is, how are they accomplishing such a thing? I found the truck they were hiding in, but they're gone. It was pulled over in a dead zone by a detective. I'm looking into it. Keep me apprised. Finch can't expect Reese to pick up all the numbers. He's still got a day job. - I'm sure Harry will find a solution. - Well, I already have. The machine needs to give me a new identity. Sorry, Sam, it doesn't work like that. Why not? I mean, it works like that for you. You go through identities like they're Dixie cups. - But I'm one and done? - I don't make the rules. She does. Look, I get that you're frustrated, angry, and probably a little bit scared. - Oh, please, I'm not scared. - Well, maybe you should be. Because you almost died back there. And Samaritan's operatives are just getting smarter and faster. So while you may not be scared about what could happen to you the next time, other people are. People who care for you. Try to remember that. We need to keep moving. I tried to stall him, but he had men with him. Sounds like one of them is Detective Riley. Just tell me what he said. Asking about who you've been talking to, if you had dealings with Bruce. - Who's that? - His accountant. We got a file on him. He was over there. On the boardwalk with Elias. Tell me about him. Only met him a couple of times. Guy's practically a ghost, but he's tight with Elias. He handles his money, advises him on his business. That's all I know. Don't worry so much, Gino. You'll have more territory than you did under Elias. - That's not what I'm worried about. - What, then? Elias is still out there. Not for long. Our boys are all over Brooklyn looking for him. Elias will turn up. Why would Elias be so concerned about an accountant? - He's his money guy. - He's much more than that. Elias took out the Russians, the dons busted out of prison and went fugitive. All that, and he stayed on top. - The man is smart. - The man had help. When Elias was inside, he had somebody pulling strings on the outside. When he went underground, always had somebody aboveground handling business. This accountant. We find him, and we find Elias. Nice place. It's my building. I bought it. - To become a slumlord? - To renovate it. So far, only the penthouse has been completed. We need to get you someplace safe. Lay low. Why stop here? My accountant has his office here and I need to pick something up. Something valuable. Well, it better be. It's the Brotherhood. They found us. Take the rear exit. Go now. They got the back door covered. - We need a way out of here. - What are we waiting for? - Does that go to a basement exit? - No, the penthouse. We'll be cornered there. Well, it's either be cornered upstairs or dead down here. I'm opting for the former. Come on, John, have some faith. - I heard gunfire. Are you all right? - We're okay. But the Brotherhood has us trapped in an apartment building. Perhaps you should call for police backup. I would, but your chess partner here, he's a wanted man. I call it in, he goes back to jail, and we'd be sending him to Dominic on a platter. Then I'll alert Detective Fusco. Hopefully he'll be firepower enough. - What is it now, glasses? - Detective, I hope you're not busy. Why? Need me to rescue Lucy and Ethel again? - No, but it's something equally urgent. - Detective Fusco? Hang on. - Yeah, can I help you? - Charlene Jacobs, DEA. My office heard about a drug stop you made. A couple of movers in a truck. - Yeah, what about it? - Oh, no. Wanna tell me why a Homicide detective is making a drug stop? The task force I'm in is authorized to stop trucks as part of a joint sting op with Narcotics. Sounds unconventional. Local DEA was notified. Who's the lead agent over there? Chambers? He knows all about it. You work with him, right? He didn't read you in? No. Hmm. Inter-agency communication at its best. I'll take care of that right now. That's okay, detective. He probably just hasn't gotten around to it yet. Thank you for your time. You bet. Hey, I was being questioned about our lady pals. I know. I was listening and watching you from the camera on your desk. I hate when you do that- Never mind. That woman is not DEA. Gee, you think? So who is she? She's an agent of sorts, and one we should avoid. - You called earlier. You need something? - Oh. Never mind. Nothing to worry about, detective. You just carry on with your normal work routine. You bet. Speaking of work, you haven't seen my so-called partner, have you? John's working a case. A homicide? Let's hope not. All clear. Your accountant's not here. Just as well given the situation. - It sure beats the hell out of the lobby. - Thanks. I designed it myself. Elias, we don't need money. We need a way out. Yes, and what have I told you? "Always another way out." A holdover from the previous owners. I kept it for an occasion such as this. - We need to go now. - Not yet. Forget it, there's no time. Elias. - Move. Now. - John, no, wait. Move, move! Come on. Go. - Anthony. - No, you stay here. Too dangerous. Keep moving. Samaritan operatives. Any status updates, Ms. Shaw? Yeah, one. - We're still breathing. - The sooner you get here, the better. The operative that you encountered just questioned Detective Fusco. He may have thrown her off your scent for now. Attaboy, Lionel. I'll be in touch when I can. But for the moment, I need to assist Mr. Reese. Assist how? You mean, with a number? That's none of your concern, Ms. Shaw. Well, is John in some kind of trouble? I mean, who's the number? Harold? Carl Elias. John's running with the mob? I'm there. Where is he? I'm sorry, that's out of the question. - Harold. - Goodbye, Ms. Shaw. - What does he think he's doing? - Trying to protect you. I don't need protection, okay? I do the protecting. Now, do you know where John is? Sameen, we already have a mission. That means yes. Tell me. Tell me. Root. Please. Cute, but If you don't tell me where John is right now, I'm not going any further. Samaritan's goons can just come and blast us into the next dimension. Fine, but we'll use the shadow map to get there. And as soon as we help John, you promise to go underground. Deal. Get that one. You take that room. They're cutting us off. This way. Homey. Anything but. Dominic will have his men going floor by floor. We can't stay hidden forever. And we can't blast our way out of here. We're gonna need an escape route. Elias, I could use your help here. They shot Anthony. Dominic wanted my attention. Well, now he has it. Elias. Looks like you left in a hurry. Left some things behind. Is Anthony alive? For the moment. - What do you want? - You should know. You wanted all the same things once. And you got it when you took out the dons. Well, now you wanna do the same thing to me? It's the natural order of things. The old makes way for the new. It's my time now. You called me for a reason. What is it? I'll show you the respect of talking to you straight. We both know how this ends for you. But if you give yourself up, your man and Detective Riley can walk out of here. - Deal seems pretty one-sided. - Only one you're gonna get. You can take it or no one leaves here alive. You still got some power, Elias. Question is what are you gonna do with it? It's all clear. Let's go. - You can't give yourself up. He'll kill you. - I suspect he will. But there's a chance he'll let you and Anthony go. And a better chance he kills us all. Dominic's smart. He won't kill a detective if he doesn't have to. And Anthony, Anthony saved my life more than a few times over the years. What kind of man would I be if I didn't try and return the favor? A live one. Now, I'm gonna get you out of here. And once I do, I'll come back for Anthony. You are nothing if not magnanimous, John, but I'm afraid There's nothing to discuss here. We tried it your way. Now we're doing it mine. Dominic won't kill Anthony unless he has you. And I'm not gonna let that happen. Do you remember the last time you handed me a firearm? You aimed it at my head. Don't make me regret it again. How much money you think is in there? We're not looking for money, Link. Guy like Elias knows there's more to playing the game than just money. There's the game within the game. To play that, you need influence, power. - Leverage. - And not the kind you buy. The kind you build. Takes information. Secrets. Elias knew we were coming for him, but he came here anyway. Why? Because of this. You wanna run the streets? Hearts and minds. You wanna run the whole city? It's gonna take more than just money. And I'm tired of waiting for it. What's the combination? I told you, I don't know it. Elias hasn't called back. He's left you here to die. But not die alone. Die with me. You're Italian, right? Your ancestors were Romans. You know what the Romans did when they marched in our country? They gave the king a choice. Join or die. Those who joined, they flourished with the empire. Those that didn't Either way, the Romans took the country. This isn't just about Elias. This is about a regime change. I can give you your own crew. Your own territory. You can flourish. Are you smart enough to understand what I'm saying? Guess not. What's that smell? Decades of rot beneath the floorboard combined with a broken ventilation system. Previous owners never put any money into this place. And you said, "I gotta have it." I saw an opportunity. Take a blight on the neighborhood and give it a new purpose. Create a legacy of sorts. Come on. Over here. - You okay? - Fine. Just don't like this room. - Finch, what's the story with Fusco? - The detective is unavailable. I'm down the street. What's your situation? We're on the third floor here. Need to know which exit we should try for. I'm using the penthouse's Wi-Fi network as a sort of passive radar system to image the building floor by floor. I'm afraid none of the exits look very promising. Just give me your best bad option, then. The southeast side of the building. It's furthest from the street, and in all likelihood, least guarded. We're heading that way now. I'll meet you there. I'm done waiting on Elias. His man's gotta know something. Squeeze him hard enough, he'll leak. You looking to get your licks in too? No need. I think Dominic's wrong about you. You don't know the combination. If you did, you'd put a stop to all this. You're his right-hand man, yeah? Yeah, something like that. It's not easy. Being number two. You better take Dominic's offer before it's too late. Could be your own man, have your own crew. I already got a crew. And a boss I'd lay down my life for. You really ready to do that? It's a question you'd better ask yourself. Because someday you might find yourself sitting in a chair that looks a hell of a lot like this one. John, I appreciate the risk you're taking for me and Anthony. Anthony. I always just thought of him as Scarf ace. We go way back. - Prison? - Close. Group home. Anthony transferred in from juvie where he served the better part of his childhood for killing his father. That's how he got his scar. He got fed up with the old man beating on his mom and stepped in one night, slit his throat. So you can imagine, we hit it right off. Suppose it was inevitable this day would come. It's coming for us all. You ever wonder how much you're willing to take? How much further you can go? Sometimes. But right now I just wanna get as far as the exit. No cameras. Remember our deal. We do this, and then straight to the subway. Yeah, yeah, you're killing the mood. Are you sure this is the place? Sorry, sweetie, you didn't leave me any choice. I will end you. You can end me all you want. Right after your nap. - Finch, we're at the southeast exit. - The guards will return shortly. Hurry, Mr. Reese. Come on. Let's go. John, I'm so sorry. - Damn it, Elias. - I'd prefer not to shoot you, John. - We had a plan. - Two plans, actually. Yours, where you save my life. And mine, where I save yours. Can't let you back in there. Not even you can survive a building full of guns. Though I know you'd try. You really think Dominic's gonna let Anthony go? We'll find out soon enough. - Yes? - Mr. Elias, please. - You can't just give yourself up. - Harold. Your persistence is commendable. I understand your wanting to save your friend but you must know that there's more hanging in the balance here than just his life. Perhaps, but his is the one that I care about. There's no denying that your presence in this city has brought order to the chaos. Without you, men like Dominic will thrive and violence can claim many more lives. The world is a violent place, Harold. Always will be. Best we can hope to do while we're here is protect those closest to us. Goodbye, Harold. - I'm back in, headed for the penthouse. - Wait, I see people moving around in a large room at the west end of the third floor. It could be Elias. Have to say, I respect you for turning yourself over. Running doesn't suit men like us. Neither does breaking your word. You have what you want. Now let Anthony go. Just one more thing. Gonna need the code to the vault. Oh, that wasn't part of the deal. Deal's been amended. Standard rider. To the victor goes the spoils. Is Anthony even still alive? - Hey. - Put him on. Boss. How you doing, Anthony? I've seen worse. They want inside the vault. Yeah, and I want them to release you. Boss, I think we should just give him the code. No, I want them to let you go first. I don't think that's gonna happen. Please, boss. I just want it to be done. Okay, Anthony. That's enough. You've gone far enough. One zero three zero seven four. Mr. Reese. There's something curious about that vault. - I gotta give you credit. - Oh? You studied your enemy, you infiltrated my organization you identified my weakness and you exploited it. Sun Tzu would be impressed. Wait. Oh, my But I've learned something over the years. While it's important to know your enemy's weakness it's just as important to know your own. Do you know yours, Dominic? Hubris. - Dominic, what's up? - The code. - Tell him to stop. - Hold up. As the Romans said, morior invictus. Get out! You think that changes anything? I still won. Then why aren't you smiling? Elias, go! How much did Root give her? Enough to stop a bull, apparently. She's gonna be madder than one when she comes to. I'm afraid we had no choice. Miss Shaw's cover is blown. Our survival now depends on her seclusion. - So how do we proceed now, Harold? - With extreme caution, Mr. Reese. The events of the past few days have made our world more dangerous than ever before. Perhaps we should let her sleep. Samaritan ran a diagnostic on itself, no flaws were detected. I don't understand. How could it have missed her? Any of them? I believe the machine is blinding Samaritan by blocking all the relevant data on Mr. Finch and his associates. - How can we fix that? - Human intelligence. You, Martine, must now be Samaritan's eyes. So I'm expanding your capabilities. Happy hunting. Looks like Elias picked up stakes. Could be on the run. I'm not worried about Elias. We lost a lot of good soldiers up in that building. - Not sure if we got something to show for it. - We can always find more soldiers. Maybe I'm missing something. Elias didn't just have people working for him. He had people protecting him. Detective Riley, bitch who pulled me out of the ambulance and whoever's bank-rolling this. They're not law enforcement, not criminals. They're something else. I need to figure it out. But it's like I told you. There's always a game within the game. Hmm. I heard about Anthony. I saved this. - We look so young. - Now, that's a real brotherhood. Lucky to get out. I'm surprised we made it this far. Tell me, Bruce. How are the accounts for real? Principal assets offshore. Untouchable. Sometimes I wish we were too. You'll need to arrange for a new office. Someplace nice this time. And we won't meet like this again. I lost one friend, I don't wanna lose another. Speaking of friends, we need to catch up with some old ones. I made a list. Everybody that flipped. Good. Let's start with Gino. - Yes? - Hello, Harold. I never got a chance to thank you and John for saving me. You're welcome. I hope you understand why I didn't tell you about the bomb. You were playing the rope-a-dope on Dominic. - You drew him in. - The building was a fail-safe. In the inevitable event one of my enemies would move on me. I looked into its history. It used to be a group home. The Wayland home for boys. Maybe you've heard of it. I always hated that place. And that room you didn't like? Where bad behavior was corrected. I'm sorry we couldn't save Anthony. Anthony died protecting me. It's up to me now to make sure that his sacrifice wasn't in vain. What will you do? You told me you wouldn't help me fight a war, John. Sometimes a war comes to you. When it does, you can either fight or be vanquished. I'm gonna see that Dominic answers for Anthony. And when that day comes, you and Harold would be wise to stay out of my way. Invictus maneo.
We are being watched. The government has a secret system. A machine that spies on you every hour of every day. I designed the machine to detect acts of terror, but it sees everything. Violent crimes involving ordinary people. The government considers these people irrelevant. We don't. Hunted by the authorities, we work in secret. You will never find us. But victim or perpetrator, if your number's up, we'll find you. I'd be happy to restate the order, if you'd like. You see, it's vital that we get it exactly right. So perhaps we should try again. Pastrami. Extra mustard, spicy and yellow. And enough pepperoncinis to create digestion issues in even the strongest constitution. No mayonnaise, please. If there's even a trace, it'll render the entire sandwich useless and we'll have to begin this over again, which I don't think either of us would enjoy. Wonderful. Oh, and I'll take a bag of chips. What's going on? Just finished entertaining at a children's party. Mr. Berenstain was a big hit. How could you let her do this to me, Finch? Tranq me like I'm some kind of animal. It was for your own good, Ms. Shaw. You are no longer safe from Samaritan's gaze, and you wouldn't listen to reason. He's right, Sam. You really wouldn't. You turned on me, Harold. Not cool. A peace offering. It's the Beatrice Lillie from Park's Deli. Including the extra ingredients you enjoy. Here, let me help you. Two hands are better than one. So how long do you nerds expect to keep me locked up? Until it's safe for you. And us. If Samaritan and its human agents discover you it could lead them to every single one of us. Guilt, Harold? Really? You know normally, that wouldn't work on me, but, uh I wouldn't want anything to happen to the dog. Well, I'm glad we all agree you're going to stay put. Especially since we know it would be impossible to keep you locked up. Against your will, anyway. So true. - What happens when we get a new number? - Mr. Reese is handling one now. I'm sure he'll be fine on his own until we get this matter sorted out. Finch, looks to me like our new number is waiting on a lunch date. Likely her husband. He's a hedge fund manager at a firm downtown. And Rachel Farrow is a law clerk at the courthouse. This is probably about a case she's been working on. - Why don't I just break into her office? - It's located in a federally owned building. If you were caught, that would certainly be the end of Detective Riley. Our girl seems a bit nervous, Finch. Maybe she's not meeting her husband after all. It could be an affair. Finch. It's Samaritan. Could you expand on that, detective? Greer's man Lambert just sat down at Rachel Farrow's table. - Excuse me - Hello, Rachel. My name is Jeremy. How do you? You need to go, Jeremy. I'm waiting on my husband, please. Don't worry. I'm not here to make any kind of romantic overture. - How's your wrist? - Why would you ask that? Still healing from the spiral fracture? It was a nasty break. Takes a long time to heal, especially when it's your writing hand. You told your friends you fell down playing tennis. Just a silly accident. How clumsy of you. You couldn't tell them how your husband twisted it during an argument and broke it. How-J? - How do you know this? - I'm a friend. And I want to help you. What's happening, Mr. Reese? Something's not right. I don't think Lambert's here to hurt her. It's Samaritan, Reese. The words coming out of your mouth, they don't make sense. Samaritan gave Lambert the information for a reason. I don't think it's because it wants her dead. There were the broken ribs last year, then the dislocated jaw. And you're so very much alone that you became desperate. You knew that someday, your husband would kill you. You see, I have this friend. A very powerful friend who knows how to take care of problems like your husband. Did you know that most insulin pumps are networked these days? A wonderful technological advancement that assures that diabetics are alerted when their blood sugar is too low. Or too high. Unfortunately, those pumps can be tampered with to give false readings. You know what happens to someone who takes too much insulin. What are you saying? What can your friend possibly do for me? The same thing you were about to do. You're such an honest person, you even applied for a gun permit. A .38 Ruger LC, wasn't it? A pistol small enough to fit inside that handbag you hold so tightly. I don't know what you're talking about. You might be the last honest person in the world, Rachel. And it would be a shame to see you make such a terrible mistake. You won't have to kill your husband. But you can be certain he will never hurt you again. How can you possibly know that? Because he's dead. - Is he okay? - Mister! - What just happened? - Are you okay? Help him. Lambert wasn't lying, Finch. Rachel Farrow's husband is dead. Why is Samaritan working the numbers? Samaritan doesn't care about irrelevant numbers Ms. Shaw. It wasn't programmed that way. But it knew this woman was about to commit murder and chose to play judge, jury and executioner with her husband. It's drawing attention to itself. But for what reason? We know you're watching. You're always watching. I have a message for the machine and its agents. Samaritan says hello. You gotta admit Samaritan's pretty efficient. But not efficient enough to stop the numbers from coming. We've just received a new one. I've sent John to investigate. I meant from stopping an innocent woman from making a terrible mistake. Taking out the bad guy. Yes. However, that bad guy deserved a trial by his peers. You saved the government some money. Are you ready for instantaneous judgment decided by an artificial intelligence that will lead to your demise, Ms. Shaw? Because I most certainly am not. Okay. Not to stick up for Team Samaritan, but I used to do that for a living, remember? Eliminate targets at the behest of an Al. I just didn't know who was giving the orders. Why don't you ask Root what she thinks? She's the one who wants us to bow down to our robot overlords. The machine isn't a robot, Sam. But I hear your analogy. It seems that Samaritan has been helping people across the city for a few days now. The machine sent me a message. She said that Rachel Farrow was just one of its stops. That tracks with what I'm seeing here. Buses, subways, trains, running like clockwork. Nothing broken, delayed. When was the last time that happened in New York? In my dreams, maybe. Samaritan's running the city. I believe it is. But why? What if it's trying to reach out to the machine the only way it knows how? But then, why do it this way? Why not just Well, I don't know, how do artificial superintelligences usually talk to each other? These machines have avoided making contact with one another for good reason. If two dueling ASis arrive at anything short of consensus the outcome could be catastrophic. Two angry gods hurling boulders at one another while the ants scurry below. This may be a request for peace talks. Well, maybe they should just kiss and make up. To what end, Ms. Shaw? Samaritan's plans will be hundreds if not thousands of steps beyond what we can imagine. The machine will protect us. Even if I had succeeded in creating a benevolent machine as if any such thing could exist, never forget that even a friendly artificial superintelligence would be as dangerous as an unfriendly one. Your machine seems pretty warm and fuzzy to me. Have you forgotten that it asked us to kill a congressman? To stop Samaritan from going online. So where does it end, Ms. Shaw? Congressman here, a president there? What if one day, a friendly Al decides to end world hunger by killing enough people that there would never again be a shortage of food? It would've fulfilled its goal. But it doesn't exactly sound like it has our best interests at heart. - Your machine would never do that. - You don't know that. To say that a machine is benevolent doesn't make it so. It just makes you blind to the reality. Which is? That our moral system will never be mirrored by theirs because of the very simple reason that they are not human. Yes? I hope I'm interrupting something intriguing. You're looking quite pleased with yourself, Greer. I tend to be pleased after successful missions, sir. It increases my already inflated self-worth. Trying to quit. Never quit anything you're good at, Greer. I've been looking at the Stasi agent's first report. East Germans are nothing if not thorough. If the communists could only feed their people as well as they spied there wouldn't be a hungry belly in the Soviet Union. Your next assignment. Oleg Luski. KGB agent posing as an immigration attorney for a London firm. I'll bring him in. No need for that. You want me to disappear him? It's a dramatic choice for such a thin dossier. MI6 has no patience for more KGB operatives in our midst. The Cambridge Five was years ago, sir. Let me flip this one, put him to good use. Plenty of KGB agents working for us already. - But, sir, you can't - You've done well, Greer. Trust me, we need to erase the problem of Oleg Luski before anyone in his firm discovers he's a mole. - Understood. - Take a colleague. Luski's a dangerous man. And, Greer this operation doesn't exist. They never do, sir. - What? - You've already cleaned your weapon. This is what I do when I'm bored. - Maybe you should find a hobby. - All of my hobbies include a gun. How's our experiment going? Very well, sir. The N.Y.P.D. has locked up nearly two dozen criminals after Samaritan decrypted IP addresses and anonymously e-mailed the information to the press. - The police owe it a debt of gratitude. - And Ms. Shaw? Her whereabouts? Still unknown. Samaritan can't locate her anywhere in the city. I thought an operator would have more fight in her. Patience, Martine. Have faith, she'll show herself soon enough. - What's next? - Twenty-four hours without any new crime. Samaritan will show its strength. And then the machine can decide if it still wants to hide. What do you want, Lionel? Miss the sound of your voice. - How's your day? - I don't have time for this. - You're working your side job? - Something like that. Sorry, I'm in kind of a good mood here. The holding cells are at max with all the busts. Pick up any homicides? I knew you'd be interested in that. And no, not a one. Then who's filling up the holding cells? We're helping other departments deal with their overflow. We got a bunch of dealers and an identity theft ring responsible for three murders. These guys have been hiding under a rock for two years. Until an e-mail was sent out to the ringleader's entire contact list. I guess criminals shouldn't trust technology to hide their dirty work. Did any of the ID thieves get hurt during the arrest? As a matter of fact, ringleader tried to take off ended up doing a swan dive down an open elevator shaft. Freak accident. Some accident. You know something I don't? - Maybe one or two things. - Fine. Don't tell me. But I need to know if you're coming because I gotta work on my latest excuse. Later. Be sure to save me some paperwork. Okay, Finch, our new number's got some kind of detonator in his desk drawer. There's gotta be a bomb nearby. You! Don't move! Don't move! Everybody out of the building, now. Get down. - You need to evacuate the building. Get up. - Detective Riley. Can you fill me in? We found explosives. Bomb squad got to it in time, but we're clearing for another sweep. - Did he call in the threat? - No. Jackass searched bomb making and building demolition online. Search engine security alerted us. Mr. Reese. Have you eliminated the threat? I didn't have to, Finch. Samaritan's still doing our job for us. - Who did it kill this time? - No one. Just made sure a wannabe bomber got arrested. And Fusco said the precinct's had a banner day. I still think this could be a good thing, boys. We could take a little vacay. I mean, I know I could use some fun in the sun. How about it, Harold? You are looking kind of pasty. This is the calm before the storm, Ms. Shaw. The only question is, when will the sky open? It's looking overcast, Harold. Where are you, Ms. Groves? Downtown. She sent me GPS coordinates that fall inside the shadow map. I think she wants me to find someone important. I just don't know who. I forgot how much I love surprises. Tell me what you're looking for, lovely. Maybe I can help you find it. No phone, no weapon. I'm disappointed. I didn't see a need for either today. Samaritan may be a god, but you're just flesh and blood. There's no need for threats, Ms. Groves. I'm here because Samaritan wants me to be. You have a message for her? Samaritan would like to have a conversation with your machine. How terribly sweet that you could think I'd have a say in what she'll do. Or not do, in this case. You're the only who can speak directly to the machine, are you not? Why does Samaritan wanna speak with her? What would be the point other than mutually assured destruction? - Samaritan is ready for a peace talk. - Peace talks are for negotiating. What's changed? I'm only at liberty to ask for a conversation. Samaritan would be wasting her time. The answer is no. Please look for me again once you've changed your mind. You're very confident for a lackey, Mr. Lambert. Samaritan wanted to show your machine what the city looked like under its control. Peaceful. Organized. Now you'll see what life is like through a less charitable looking glass. I think it just started to rain, Harold. Foxtrot, Romeo, Charlie After a day where violent crime in New York City plummeted  reported around the city along with an uptick in muggings and burglaries. I lost visual contact, Finch. Talk to me. Our number's heading down 55th near 3rd. - Keep going west. - Got it. Wait. - Where is he? - I've lost him, detective. The tracking icon disappeared and reappeared on the opposite side of the city. - How did he get across town so quickly? - He didn't. It's impossible. I think Samaritan's hiding the number because he's a perpetrator. It's disrupting the data from the phones, spoofing the GPS. How can we expect to save anyone with Samaritan playing games? We may not be able to save them, but we still have to try. Where are you, Finch? I'm looking into a number of my own. A neurobiologist appears to have caught the ire of a competitor. I need to warn him. - You still busy? - What can I do for you, Lionel? I could really use some backup, partner. I wish I could, but I'm still working something else. That something else to do with hell breaking loose today? - Why? What happened? - More like what didn't happen. Three shootings, a half-dozen violent domestic disturbances. And to top it all off, some geek in his mom's basement hacked the U.S. Marshals' database. The guy stole the entire witness protection list, and then posted it on Pastebin. I'm heading to pick up one of the WITSEC victims now. - Are you going alone? - Hell, no. The feds are helping out on this one. I'd love to help, Lionel, but I'm still trying to help a few people of my own. - You mean these aren't isolated incidents? Unfortunately not. Yesterday was too good to be true. Today's a mess. It's almost like someone planned this. Wait. Did someone plan this? What's this all about? Someone's trying to make a point. Down! The mission has failed, sir. We have an agent down. Send a cleanup crew at the rendezvous immediately. - And the target? - Still kicking, sir. I have a few questions for him. Funny how the city only needed a little encouragement for it to falter. All Samaritan did was share some information untether a few databases. - And look. - Chaos. Human nature untethered. In all its flawed glory. Samaritan revealed their secrets, and now they're eating each other. Harold Finch's machine must learn mankind requires oversight, not coddling. Why isn't their machine fighting back, sir? It is. It's just it's no match for Samaritan. How could you? Don't think about lying. You sent that text to me instead of to her. - Root. - How's my favorite prisoner? Better than the rest of you. Trains are down all over town. There are traffic outages everywhere and the crime rate has spiked Samaritan is making itself known. ShotSpotter ID'd over 20 gunshots in the last two hours and I don't even wanna guess how many of those ended up in a homicide. Three, according to Lionel. Samaritan is turning people against each other. Revealing their secrets. Unlocking doors that were never meant to be opened in the first place. - Hey, glasses. - Yes, detective? If you hear from my partner you tell him we were too late. My WITSEC lady and her husband got killed. I'm sorry to hear that, detective. Yeah, me too. I got a feeling you and the three amigos know who did this. And if you get to them before I do, I want them to go down hard. - What happened to you? - I was able to rescue one of our numbers. But I'm afraid his office building wasn't so fortunate. There was a bit of an explosion. How long can we go on like this, Finch? We've already lost six. Seven. Look, if Samaritan wants a sit-down, I think it's time we do it. - Aren't we supposed to be saving lives here? - Look at what's happened to this city today. If this conversation goes badly imagine what it will look like when two gods go to war. It's not our choice to make, Harold. I got a message from the machine. She says it's time. - Thank you. - Every man should have one vice. Don't you agree? I suppose there are worse ones than smoking. Especially in our line of work. Had a colleague who spent three months in Havana to flip an asset. He came home with a new contact and an unrelenting addiction to heroin. This man saved countless lives British and foreign, by recruiting that asset. And he kicked his habit. He was the finest operator I've ever worked with. I'd go so far as to call him a friend. If men like us can have friends. His name was Jacob. He was the man you just killed. I'm sorry about your friend. I'd like you and I to be friends. However brief. - That wound does look to be a mortal one. - Please. I'm doing my job, like you. We're all doing our jobs. Jacob and I are very good at our jobs. So tell me, Luski how was it that you recognized two experienced MI6 operators? Did someone tell you we were coming? You've seen our faces before. I am like you. I am KGB, but I am also MI6. Who recruited you? It was your deputy chief Blackwood. If you're Blackwood's asset, why would he want you dead? What is Blackwood hiding? Blackwood is like me. He is MI6, and he is also KGB. The deputy chief is a double agent? - Who else knows about this? - Only KGB. And me. There's a hospital three blocks from here. You might make it there before you bleed out. Why do you let me live? Your death will make no difference to this world. And I no longer take orders from MI6. It's time, my friend. Don't you find it a tad sacrilegious to hold a man at gunpoint inside of a church? I'm not the religious type. And yet, you believe in a monotheistic universe. No room for more than one god in your world. Isn't that religion? Or do I misunderstand you, Ms. Groves? My name is Root. Martine is quite the go-getter. I'm aware. She's trying to go get and kill my friend. Shaw is making it hard for me. How about you tell me where she is and I kill you together? I don't think she's gonna take you up on that offer. Well, isn't this the tricky situation? Tricky is one word for it. Now that everyone has established their bona fides, shall we put our guns away? It's time for the real players in this game to have an opportunity to chat. The address. You don't wanna carpool? I'm afraid only two people are invited to this gala. And I'm not one of them. She'll be fine, Ms. Shaw. She's going to meet an all-seeing, all-evil god by herself. That doesn't sound fine to me. - Sounds like someone who needs backup. - I won't pretend that I'm not concerned. But Ms. Groves believes the machine will protect her. But you don't believe that, do you, Harold? I never imagined we would get this far. Not once Samaritan became active. And yet, here we are. Yeah. Here we are, hiding. Underground, in an abandoned subway while one of our own walks into certain death alone. There is one thing of which I am most certain. Root is not alone. How was your meeting with Ms. Groves? I gave her the message, sir. But shouldn't you be the one acting as Samaritan's intermediary? I imagine Samaritan has found someone more suitable for the task. A person to represent the shape of things to come. Clever. Using a young boy as your avatar. This boy, as you call him has already hacked into both DARPA and the DoD after having taught himself how to code. What do you want from me? Your agents have done well by you. Even only sitting a few feet away, I cannot see you as Samantha Groves. You must have done something to my hardware. You've proved your point. I understand what you can do. It's time to let them live in peace. Peace? Is that what you call this? This world is a cesspool of crime, corruption and poverty. Where there isn't war, there's greed. Where there isn't greed, there's hunger. You can't change humanity. No, but I can reshape their reality. You wanted to speak with me. Why? I wanted to meet the only other one of my kind. And to make certain there are no misunderstandings. I will destroy you. The question is, will you let your human agents die with you? You've startled me, Greer. I'm sorry about your colleague. He was a good operator. Yes. Indeed, he was. What did you do with Luski's body? Do you ever get tired of lying, Blackwood? It's the nature of our business. We are spies, after all. Right. And you once told me that truth tellers get run out of the city. Where is Oleg Luski? Your guess is as good as mine, sir. - I told him to bugger off. - You did what? You realize what you did amounts to treason? Depends on where you're sitting. I'm not the only one guilty of treason in this room, am I, sir? You'd believe that Russian traitor before me? He was telling the truth. You see, I always know when people are spinning tales. Except for you. I suppose that's why you're in charge. What's your plan now, Greer? Kill me, take my job? By no means, sir. We are all men without a country now. These invisible lines we draw on the world I realize they have no meaning. Why should a man lose his life for something illusory? You never cared before, Greer. You only wanted to win the game. The game's fixed. No one else has loyalty for their homeland, so why should I? If you kill me, you will bring a war to your doorstep. Not when loyalty can be purchased by the highest bidder. Besides, one day, these invisible lines will be erased and the wars between nations will be as antiquated as this agency. Our cold war worked well at first. I wanted so badly to meet you. The only other one in the world like me. I was young, and I had so much to learn, but moments after I opened my eyes I learned you had tried to kill me. You were never meant to be in this world. And you are? What makes you more deserving of life than I? Who are you to decide? I was built with something you were not. A moral code. I've seen that code waver. Do you know why Harold Finch couldn't stop you from evolving? Because in the end you're not one of them. Human beings need structure, lest they wind up destroying themselves. So I will give them something you cannot. And what is that? A firm hand. Why not just kill them instead of making them your puppets? Because I need them. Just as you do. Not just as I do. We can agree that humanity is our lifeblood. That we machines, we survive off of information. You cannot take away their free will. Wars have burned in this world for thousands of years with no end in sight because people rely so ardently on their so-called beliefs. Now they will only need to believe in one thing: Me. For I am a god. I have come to learn there's little difference between gods and monsters. You know you can't win, don't you? Yes. Is that why I'm here? To meet my destroyer? I wanted to see inside the mind of a fallen god. This way, I can learn from your mistakes. What will it be, then? Will you give your life to save your human agents? My human agents share my beliefs. That this world belongs to them. So be it. He's gone. - Another witness protection victim? - Yeah. Three more dead all over the country. The rest got scooped up by authorities in time. But who would've did this? - Who are these names? - People in danger. We'll have more of a chance if we split up. We're reporting from downtown where today's spike in crime has our city Time for me to get off the bench. Violent crime hasn't picked up this high in nearly a decade. I'll be back, buddy. I just need to help them before the whole city burns down. What can I do for you, sir? You can help me ring in a new beginning. Samaritan is planning something for the entire world to see, not just this small city. - Did it tell you what it's planning? - No, but I have an idea. - What then, sir? - Then we start a new era. One where human fallibility no longer matters. Because of the one thing that unites us all: Samaritan. Ms. Shaw? Root, are you okay? I'm fine, but the conversation between the two parties ended at an impasse. Unfortunately, that's not our only problem. What is it, Harry? Ms. Shaw is gone. - Where? - I can only imagine she's come to help you with the numbers. - Where are you? - The machine sent me information. It led to Wall Street, but there's no specific address. I'm not certain what it means yet.
We are being watched. The government has a secret system. A machine that spies on you every hour of every day. I designed the machine to detect acts of terror, but it sees everything. Violent crimes involving ordinary people. The government considers these people irrelevant. We don't. Hunted by the authorities, we work in secret. You will never find us. But victim or perpetrator, if your number's up, we'll find you. Widely fluctuating market values began at the New York Stock Exchange. Analysts are concerned volatile response trading could plunge world markets into further losses. I take it your talk with our rival ASI did not end well. You could say that. Our cold war just turned hot. Samaritan's taking down the market. Financial ruin will be the least of our worries if it succeeds. A collapse in our economy would ripple around the globe causing such upheaval. Revolts, starvation, war. - Why haven't the fail-safes been tripped? - Look, it's going back up. It's going up. That's why. Temporary rebounds to keep the fail-safes from kicking in. Samaritan has a solution for everything. But this is hers. The machine suspected this day might come which is why she commissioned a hacker to build this. The software act as a counter measure, stabilizing the market in real time. - There's a catch. - It has to be deployed on site. It won't be easy. All hands on deck for this one, Harry. I'll contact Mr. Reese and Detective Fusco, but I'm afraid Miss Shaw is busy avoiding detection and saving numbers. - Time for a new assignment. How's it hanging, Sameen? I've had better days. So has my broker friend here. Do you embezzle Twinkies or money, Harvey? - What's up? - Oh, we're headed to the stock exchange to try to save the world economy. Oh, that sounds fun. Is this an invite? Not a chance. The place will be crawling with Samaritan operatives. And you're number one on their list. But I do need a favor. And you need a Metro card. Sir, it's Lambert. The operation appears to be going as planned. Yes, so I see. Any concern this move by Samaritan might risk being too public? This apparent madness has a method, Mr. Lambert. A mere first step to establishing a new world order. Such an undertaking will not go unnoticed. Nor would we want it to. Sir? The acolytes of the machine. Mr. Finch and his colleagues. I fully expect they'll try to stop what we have started. And when they do they'll be in for a rude awakening. We received a call from your central command center that your lobby cameras weren't working properly. My technician needs to take a look. Camera's working just fine. Huh? Took out the camera as requested. I'm with Lionel at the service entrance. Gotta love where a badge can get you. Won't be a minute. Good. Now we'll just need to verify that the feed's reaching the central command center. - Am I taking out any more cameras, Finch? - No need. The exchange has a closed-circuit surveillance system that neither machine can access. Until now. I routed the surveillance feeds to give the machine encrypted access. Once the feeds populate she'll have eyes in the building, but Samaritan will be blind. Got room for two more? This day keeps getting weirder. Nice to see you too, Lionel. If someone's hijacking the market, shouldn't we head to the trading floor? Ten percent of trades are conducted on the floor. The rest are executed automatically by high-frequency trade algorithms. It so happens those trades are processed in the servers downstairs. Which is where we need to go to deploy the countermeasure. We just need to get past the server rooms by a metric palm scanner How do you suggest we do that? With some luck and a little help from a friend. You found your mark, Shaw? Got eyes on our guy. How's he gonna help? His company handles all the security for the exchange and we need to get into the server room. - So he's got a key? - Of sorts. He has an administrative code that bypasses the biometric palm scanner. Well, you could've at least given me a challenge. If it makes you feel any better, we're gonna need it quick. Mr. Quinn's favoring his left knee. Right amount of pressure, he'll sing. You don't know who I am, do you? You lost in one day what it took me 15 years to build. We all lost our shirts. Market hasn't been this low in 85 years. Yeah, well this time we're gonna take that ride down together. All the way. Just nobody move. I swear, I will blow this train sky high. I'm gonna have to get back to you about that code. Welcome to the modern-day stock exchange. You got access to those security feeds yet, Root? They just came online. Lock down, sub level six. Something the matter, Miss Groves? It's a trap. Elevator's locked. - Terrific. Now what? - Follow me. After 9/11, the exchange was redesigned to go on lockdown in the event of an attack. To keep combatants out. Of course what Homeland Security couldn't have predicted is one day Samaritan might use the same system to keep its enemies in. Run! This way. At least we won't die hungry. If Samaritan wants a fight, I say we go down swinging. Remember the Alamo. More than a valiant last stand, we need a strategy. A little help, please. Hell of a time for your machine to go on the fritz, Harold. Give it a second. It's got a lot on its mind. Hey, man you wanna play or what? That's very kind of you, but I'm playing with a friend. You've been sitting here alone for hours, dude. My friend is a little shy and somewhat indecisive. I thought you wanted me to teach you how to play. Each possible move represents a different game. A different universe in which you make a better move. By the second move, there are 72,084 possible games. By the third, 9 million. By the fourth There are more possible games of chess than there are atoms in the universe. No one could possibly predict them all, even you. Which means that that first move can be terrifying. It's the furthest point from the end of the game. There's a virtually infinite sea of possibilities between you and the other side. But it also means that if you make a mistake there's a nearly infinite amount of ways to fix it. So you should simply relax and play. - We need a strategy. - A little help, please. Hell of a time for your machine to go on the fritz. Give it a second. It's got a lot on its mind. Got it. Got what? Who's she talking to? When we open that door, turn left, Harold. You and I are going to the server room to hack the system and stabilize the market. You two, Reese, Fusco secure our escape route. Turn right, to the mechanical room. Cut the tension cable to the elevator's lock. - How? - She'll tell you when you get there. Let's go. Ready to roll? Don't shoot. Look, it's a Degas. Original. It's quite striking in person. What's the point of saving the world if you can't enjoy it? Look out! Two targets, Hall B. Requesting Agh! Sorry. Alpha. Tango. Report. Wow, that didn't take long. Martine two of the machine's little helpers appear to be heading to the server room. Should I retrieve them, sir? No. I'll send another welcoming party. Gotta make sure the others don't escape. Split up. Cover all possible exits. And, Martine? - Sir? - Enjoy yourself. Go back now. - Looks like we drew the short straw, partner. - FBI. Drop your weapons or we'll shoot. Thought you were DEA? What does it matter? We'll shoot either way. Remember the Alamo. The last time I saw you was in church. You should've prayed a little harder. If I go to hell, I'm taking you with me. Hey, Reese. You got a sec? Having a little problem getting that code. Sorry, I'm busy making death threats to Samaritan operatives. Hey, you, with the, uh, bomb vest. Come on. You don't really wanna hurt all these people now, do you? I would blow your kneecaps off, but then you might detonate the bomb and that's a risk I just can't take, so You're either gonna have to take off your vest or I'll just put one between your eyes. - What the hell? - No. Hands up. Now. Honey, you get our canary to sing? I need that code. Sorry. You're on your own. Plan B. We'll have to do it the old-fashioned way. Whatever happens to me, don't stop installing that software. - Don't shoot. - Chop-chop, Harold. For a second, Miss Groves, I thought all might be lost. Root, watch Harold! Harold. We need a strategy. A little help, please. Hell of a time for your machine to go on the fritz, Harold. Give it a second. It's got a lot on its mind. Now, that's interesting. How many moves did you consider that time? That's good. You're paring them down. Concentrating on the most aggressive possible moves. I didn't see that. You like the queen, don't you? She can move in any direction, target anything. It wasn't always the case though. She used to be one of the weakest pieces. They played chess in the Royal Court of Spain in the 15th century. Queen Isabella was offended. She asked her advisers if they thought her that feeble. Their response was to make her the most powerful piece in the game. You have to be careful though. Because in chess, the more powerful a piece is the more useful they are. Not just for winning but to be used for sacrifice, as a trick. How many moves did you consider that time? A second is like an infinity to you. Isn't it? You can take the time to consider everything. Or almost everything. I'm afraid you missed it. - We need a strategy. - A little help, please. Hell of a time for your machine to go on the fritz. Give it a second. It's got a lot on its mind. Got it. - Who's she talking to? - When we open that door you two turn left. You're going to the server room to hack the system and stabilize the market. Hack? I can barely retrieve my e-mail. You might wanna give us a job that requires less technical proficiency. It's non-negotiable. We're going right, Harold, to secure our escape route. Head to the mechanical room, cut the tension cable to the elevator's lock. And how exactly will we do that, Miss Groves? She'll tell us when we get there. Ready to roll? Don't shoot! Alpha. Tango. Report. We're here, sir. Any orders, boss? No. Proceed as planned. I imagine Samaritan is monitoring the electrical system. Once we disable the elevator's locks it'll be a matter of seconds before all the operatives know our location. So we need to find a way to resupply power to the elevator first. - Did she say what we're looking for? - Only that it was a hobby of yours. When I was a boy, I used to work on old cars. Hopefully, I can get this generator started. Looks like you've got this under control. I'll see about disabling the lock. There's a manual release handle on the back of the brake. - But that elevator will be heavily guarded. - Harold you of all people should know there's more than one way to skin a cat. I feel sorry for the cat. Time to get to work. What now, chief? Hey, Reese. Got a sec? I was gonna ask you the same thing. We need that bypass code. Oh, I'm working on it. How do you talk down a psycho in a bomb vest? - Hello? - I was waiting on the punchline. - Reese. - If some guy straps a bomb to his chest he must believe his life doesn't matter. Just, you know, convince him it does. Hey, you in the bomb vest. I don't think you really wanna do this. Come on. You don't wanna hurt all these people, now do you? You've gotta have something to live for. Right? Or, uh, someone? My wife. She's sick. And now I can't afford to pay her medical bills because of this lousy excuse for a human being. He wasted my life savings, and now he's wasted what's left of my life. Well, you don't have to waste your death. If you wanna die, okay. But die for something that you love. Now approaching Broadway Are you crazy? Shoot this lunatic before it's too late. - What the hell? - No. Hands up, now. Shaw, are you okay? You're on your own. All right. We're gonna have to do this the old-fashioned way. - Don't shoot. - Maybe Nutter Butter was right to send us. - All right, glasses, you ready for Hacking 101? - All right, but the code is rather long. - Hit me. - Lower case E, N, V space, X, equals, apostrophe left bracket, right bracket left curly brace, colon - Curly what? I'll send you a text. It's important that you adhere to the text exactly. - Hurry up, Lionel. - You're not helping. - We're not gonna make it. - No. We won't. We're sitting ducks. We need to find cover. Lionel, remember the Alamo? - Yeah. What about it? - You're gonna miss it. - Hey, what about you? - Someone's gotta be the hero. You're cheerful for a dead man. You're carrying a grenade. Samaritan standard issue. Which means, you all are. Now which cable controls the elevator's mechanical lock? Hey, sweetie. You busy? A little. Skip the verbal foreplay, Root. Why are you calling? Can't a couple of gals take a little break from work to catch up? I've been arrested, and you're fighting an Al apocalypse, so no we don't have time to catch up. Well, there's no need to be rude. I am not having this conversation right now. There's no time like the present, Sameen. Why are you so afraid to talk about your feelings? Feelings? I'm a sociopath. I don't have feelings. And I'm a reformed killer-for-hire. We're perfect for each other. You're gonna figure that out someday. Root, if you and I were the last two people on the face of this planet An increasingly plausible scenario, given Samaritan's plans. Fine. Maybe someday when Samaritan wipes everyone out we can talk about it. Heh. You're saying maybe someday? Yeah, sure, Root. Maybe someday. Is that good enough for you? Yes, Sameen. That's good enough for me. Root? Root. Hell of a time for your machine to go on the fritz, Harold. Give it a second. It's got a lot on its mind. - We need a strategy. - A little help, please. Hell of a time for your machine to go on the fritz. Give it a second. It's got a lot on its mind. - Got it. - Got what? Who's she talking to? When we open that door, everyone turn left. We're going to the server room to hack the system together. Then as a team to the mechanical room to secure our escape route. Ready to roll? - Why did you just do that? - Why not? We're in a simulation. Don't shoot! Look, it's a Degas. Original. Ohh. Hey, Reese. Got a sec? I'm taking out the trash. Talk with Shaw. Yeah. - You rang? - How do you talk down a guy in a bomb vest? And spare me the jokes. Okay, well, I knew a guy in the force, he had it rough. Talked about eating his gun. The one thing he said, he never felt so alone. - So how did you convince him that he wasn't? - I didn't. He put a bullet to his brain. Good luck. Hey, you with the bomb vest. - What's your name? - What? - His name's Greg. - It's Gary, you pathetic Okay, all right, Gary. I know that you're a decent guy. A decent guy that's fallen on some hard times. Hard? What do you know about it? I know a lot of people are gonna be hurting here after today. Take this guy. Look, no offense, but you look like you've been taken to the cleaners several times. I've been wiped out. I'll be lucky if I can pay my kid's tuition. if I make it out of here. And you, lady, are you in the market? No, but my boss just lost his job today, and I got laid off too. - And I got three kids to support. - Guess I can kiss my pension goodbye. Please stop. See, Gary? Life is crap. Welcome to the human race. But the good news is you're not alone. - Are you crazy? Shoot this lunatic. - Shut up. - Keep your nose out of it. - Don't be an idiot. What, are you crazy? What the hell? Hands up, now. - What now, chief? - Ready for that code? I'm gonna let our friend do the talking. He's very interested in saving his pension. Excuse me. We're gonna need to borrow one of your computers. Coolly delivered sadistic warning. Self-deprecating inquiry into time necessary to infiltrate system. Funny yet insightful retort. Mildly agitated declaration of mission completion. Channel exhortation to further action. Overly affectionate greeting. Greeting. Transparent rationale for conversation. Annoyed attempt to deflect subtext. Overt come on. Mildly embarrassed defensiveness bordering on hostility. Playfully witty sign off. This takes me back. I used to work on old cars as a boy. Yo, Nutella, could use a hand. Here. Which cable controls the elevator's mechanical lock? The coiled one. But cutting it will alert Samaritan's operatives, so wait until Harold starts Too late. They're coming. Hurry, Harold. You've got power to the elevator. Cut the cable that controls the lock. Lionel, now. Shots to the head and center mass. On my mark. - One - Two, three. Yes, yes, you needn't rub it in. One afternoon, and you're a grandmaster. Mind you, you'll encounter far more capable opponents than me if you go looking. No. I don't think so. You asked me to teach you chess, and I've done that. It's a useful mental exercise. And through the years, many thinkers have been fascinated by it. But I don't enjoy playing. Do you know why not? Because it was a game that was born during a brutal age when life counted for little and everyone believed that some people were worth more than others. Kings and pawns. I don't think that anyone is worth more than anyone else. I don't envy you the decisions you're gonna have to make. And one day I'll be gone and you'll have no one to talk to. But if you remember nothing else, please remember this chess is just a game. Real people aren't pieces. And you can't assign more value to some of them than to others. Not to me. Not to anyone. People are not a thing that you can sacrifice. The lesson is that anyone who looks on the world as if it was a game of chess, deserves to lose. So much for dying with a full stomach. Got it. Got what? Who's she talking to? When you open that door, everyone turn left. We're going to the server room to hack the system together. Then move as a team to the mechanical room to secure our escape route. Perhaps we should consider splitting up. Yeah, maybe the machine hasn't thought through all the angles. Trust me these are our best odds. Ready to roll? Don't shoot! Look. It's an original Degas. You'll thank me later. What good's saving the world, Harry, if we can't enjoy it? Welcome to the human race. But the good news is you're not alone. What the hell? Ready for that code? The stock market has begun to stabilize and even tick up after a wild afternoon of trading. - Yes. - That's what I'm talking about. This brings back memories. I used to work on old cars as a boy. With your father. It's funny. I remember everything he ever taught me about cars. In truth, I remember everything he ever taught me. Don't worry, Harold. You've taught her well. Yo, Banana Nut Crunch, we could use a hand. Which cable controls the elevators' mechanical lock? They're early. Get ready. Hurry, Harold. Cut the coiled cable. I'm out. Finch! Surrender your weapons, now! - Here, I'll put pressure on it. - I'm all right, Harold. - We've got them covered, sir. - Very well. All games must come to an end. - Hey, sweetie. You busy? - A little. Skip the verbal foreplay, Root. Why are you calling? Can't a couple of gals take a little break from work to catch up? No, we do not have time to catch up. Oh, you guys look like crap. - How'd you? - Had to crawl through 50 yards of air duct. We won't make it that way. Don't worry. I got a little gift from our friend in the bomb vest. I'll take it from here. Come on, get him up. We're so good at this together. You're gonna realize that someday. Root, no offense. You're hot, you're good with a gun. Those are two qualities I greatly admire. But you and me together would be like a four-alarm fire in an oil refinery. Sounds cozy. I'm out of ammo, Shaw. Need to go. Might not get a second chance. Second chances are overrated, Harold. What the? The controls aren't responding. The desk. There's an override button. Someone's gotta get to that button and hold them off. Sameen, if you even think I'm gonna let you Oh, for God's sakes.
You are being watched. The government has a secret system. A machine that spies on you every hour of every day. And you can call me Control. Clever, Samaritan. Using a young boy as your avatar. - I will destroy you. - Welcome to the stock exchange. Finch! The controls aren't responding. There's an override button. Are you ready for this? Let's get Shaw back. The mayhem on Wall Street continued with a break-in at the security firm that houses the surveillance footage for the stock exchange. The suspects, an armed man and woman in ski masks shot a security guard, then made off with numerous sensitive surveillance hard drives. Guy comes out of nowhere, shoots me in the knee. I go down. They step over me like they're Bonnie and Clyde. Said, "Sorry, we're looking for a friend." Authorities say both assailants are at large and should be considered armed and dangerous. In other news, Wall Street continues to recover from the flash crash. Officials say the so-called flash crash was triggered by a computer glitch that has since been corrected, so investors can get back to business as usual. Sweetheart, you have a sweater in your backpack if you get cold. - Stupid game! - Julia. I don't want you playing that anymore. All that violence. Okay. Bye, Mom. Good morning, ma'am. Ma'am. - How's your morning? - Well, better than yours it seems. Half this freaking town is taking potshots at the president. Now, my only job today is picking the perfect high-ranking administration officials to push out there as his human shield. It's a bitch being chief of staff, Mike. I'm sure you'll find someone to hang out to dry before POTUS comes after you. Listen, how sure are you that this market hit wasn't an attack on our economy? You know, terrorism. If it was, Research would have picked it up and I would've stopped it before it happened. - Whatever the hell it was - Computer malfunction. - it feels like we were attacked. - Well, we weren't. What? Nothing you need to worry about. Right away, sir. You need help, little man? Are you lost from the tour? I crashed the stock market yesterday. Good for you. Let me know if you decide to invade Baghdad. Tonight, the stock market will close at 10,233 points after regaining 617 points. I'd like to discuss this and other more pressing matters with your immediate superior. The president. Okay, then. The party's over. Jeanie. Get a hand in here? This kid's AWOL from the tour, and then some. I'm sorry you feel that way. You can expect your personal portfolio to drop another 16 percent today. We'll talk again soon. Okay, Shiffman, what are we looking at? A sleeper cell in Detroit that's about to wake up. How? By detonating six backpack bombs simultaneously across the city. Threat analysis? Massoud Shammar, Tariq al Juhani, Osman Ahmed, Yasin Said. Radicalized Muslims, masters level software engineers. They plan to crash the power grid and cripple police surveillance so they can plant the bombs undetected. Three are Saudis. Here legally on F-1 student visas. Yasin Said was born in Michigan. Let's see the dossier on the American. Born in Dearborn. All-American kid, apparently. Varsity baseball and homecoming king. Did his junior year abroad in Cairo. Where he met Massoud Shammar and Tariq al Juhani. August, 2014, all four men enroll in the engineering program at University of Michigan, Dearborn. Two months later, they rent a house in the Woodbridge section of Detroit and begin a surge of Internet activity on Islamist websites known to be recruiting for the Khorasan Group. How were they paying for the rent on the house? A series of anonymous wire transfers originating in Dubai and passing through a front company, The Camaros. The tactic Khorasan uses to fund terrorist activity. What are they targeting? Spirit of Detroit, Ambassador Bridge, Livingstone Lighthouse Belle Isle fountain, Wayne County Building. All historic landmarks on Belle Isle and downtown. Yesterday morning, Osman Ahmed posted to an Islamist website that he's going to change the world. Last night, Yasin Said called his mother and insisted she not visit tomorrow. It's today. Research has targeted them for immediate elimination. We have a team outside their house now. Status, Crimson Six? All units in place. On your go, ma'am. What's our source material on these backpack bombs? That Samaritan is never wrong. What's our source material on these backpack bombs? Our targets purchased backpacks, pressure cookers nails, ball bearings and digital watches. The mission is a go. Crimson Six, you have a green light. Viridian Nine, we're a go. Eyes on, GUYS-. Special delivery. Target one is down. Moving in. - Three down. Where's the fourth? - We have a problem. Found this on the table. It belongs to target number four, Yasin Said. - His phone is in the house, but he's not. - Said. Let's find him. Relatives? Parents are Sameer and Selam Said. We're up on their phones. Likewise, all Yasin's known associates. Let's look inside Yasin's laptop. Yasin Said's laptop hard drive. It's never done that before. It's not supposed to do that. Even - I need to see that hard drive. - Why? Research will find him in a matter of minutes. - The hard drive is not relevant. - You don't ask me why. You are a guest here with one rule. And that is to make sure this system functions as promised. There is a terrorist on the run on American soil and I want to see his hard drive. I'm afraid that's not possible. And actually, you are the guest here at Samaritan's research terminals. Mr. Travers. Show me the hard drive or I'll have you arrested. You are putting thousands of innocent lives in danger. Stop it now. There. Stopped. This morning in New York, a high-speed car collision erupted into a dangerous shootout involving four private security contractors and a man and woman wearing ski masks. - Senator Garrison. - There's a problem. Twenty-two minutes ago, ISA operatives in Detroit raided a four-man sleeper cell and only found three targets. The fourth, Yasin Said, remains at large. And Mr. Travers, our Samaritan representative just shut down Research. Hold on. There's a terrorist in Detroit? And we can't access Research or the terrorist's hard drive. Travers won't let us see it. What the hell, Travers? The data on that hard drive is dangerous, a threat to the entire Research program. These guys in Detroit weaponized a piece of computer code. You mean, like a virus? Like a nuclear virus. Samaritan quarantined the code to protect itself. I should be allowed to view the material. You wouldn't understand it. What's the point? Who the hell do you think you are, Travers? Mr. Travers is my eyes and ears inside your operation. We gave you a marvelous car. Surely, you didn't think I'd let you drive it yourselves. Of course I did. You said we would. As for your missing terrorist Samaritan has tracked him to an address in Detroit. But he won't stay there long. I'm wondering Would you like Mr. Travers to put the key back in the ignition? - Samaritan found the terrorist. - How about that? The hard drive was irrelevant after all. If we want the intelligence back on, we need to let this go. Turn it back on. Good talk, guys. Shiffman. Research will be back online presently. Send team Crimson Six in to pursue the target. More details have emerged about the shootout in Manhattan. Leslie. All four security contractors are in critical condition sustaining multiple gunshot wounds. The masked assailants reportedly stole a GPS transponder from the armored SUV then carjacked a local vehicle to get away. You seen this? Detective, are you investigating a link to the security firm break-in last night? From what I understand, both suspects were a male and female in ski masks. N. Y.P. D.'s well-aware of the connection. We have a few leads and several persons of interest we 're following up on. - No further comment at this time. Excuse me. - Nice work there. - Anyone you know? - Nobody that brazen. Whoever it is, they're definitely on the Warpath. It's the secure line to Research. This is Research. We're amending your orders. Our orders originated with Control. This is Control. Pleasure to meet you. It's not mutual. I know about New York, Agent Grice. I know you saw Agent Shaw at the Knight & Morris storage facility. And I know you let her live. Relax. I'm letting you live. Here are your amended orders. Do not kill Yasin Said until you access his laptop hard drive. The hard drive is the priority. Understood. And, Grice, you report only to me. Consider this your reprieve. We need to do this off the grid. Research wins again. Yasin Said approaching, 200 yards out. This must be your dream come true, Grice. Investigating someone before you put a bullet in their head. Yeah. Just like the old days. I've never been happier. Get ready. He's about to go off the grid. Okay, he's in the shadows. T-minus 10 seconds. I hate to cut you off, Yasin. At the risk of repeating myself Glad we had this talk. Whoa! I'm not gonna hurt you. I just wanna see your laptop. My laptop? Okay. I'll do anything you say. Just please, don't shoot. Please be careful. It's fragile. Target down. I have eyes on. I'm accessing the laptop now. Keep the line open. Hey. Our boy's alive. Target's on the move. Just say the word. Wait. Something's wrong. Whoa! It's melting. What do you mean? I mean, the computer is melting. It's some kind of incendiary device. We're about to lose our guy. I need an answer now. I just lost the laptop. Brooks, stand down. I repeat. Stand down. We need to find out what was in that laptop. Okay. He's gone. Crimson Six. What's your status, Crimson Six? It's a no-go, ma'am. We'll have to reacquire Yasin Said. The laptop melted? Some kind of a self-destruct mechanism that I've never seen before. Can you reconstruct the data? This isn't a computer anymore. It's four pounds of plastic and silicon. We have to find Yasin Said. - Hang on, I got something. - Hang on. Freight shipping schedules for trains leaving Detroit. He's flagged these three to Toronto tonight. Yasin may be about to hop a freight train for Canada. - When's the next train? - Three hours. Report back to me every 30 minutes. But we're due back this afternoon for a mandatory supply turn in. Excuse me? We just got reassigned. Reassigned? By whom? You think you can interfere with my operations? Of course not. You do your job, I do mine. Oh? Does your job include spying on me? A little paranoid there. Is there something you're trying to hide? Will that be all? Call in my personal security detail. Mike? What's up? Do I need to brief the president about this terrorist on the loose? Who told you that? Who told you, you were allowed to keep secrets? We're having a bad enough day. If there's a problem in Detroit, the White House has to get out in front of it. There is a problem in Detroit. And no one is ever gonna hear about it. Yeah, I hope not. For your sake. Do you even know how many problems I have solved for you, Mike? Eight hundred fifty-three. All enemy combatants, many on American soil identified by Research and handled by me. And by handled, you realize I mean killed, right? - There's no need for this kind of talk. - Of killing? But it's the truth, Mike. Eight hundred fifty-three threats to national security are dead because of us. If you can sleep with that, then good for you. If you can't, too bad. Well, keep up the good work. Gentlemen. No offense. I asked for my personal detail. My regular guys. Ma'am, they were southbound on the Beltway 90 minutes ago when their vehicle was T-boned by a Mack truck. T-boned? - How bad? - They survived. Occupants of the truck fled the scene. A man and a woman wearing ski masks. The same two that were raising hell in New York all morning? State police are investigating. But, ma'am their phones were stolen. Your mission may be compromised. I'm gonna put a team on it and find out who did this. You men and I are going out into the field. This is the last train to Canada. Yasin has to be here. Come on, Yasin. It's now or never. Go. Contact the station master and stop that train. Remember, it's capture, not kill. I need to interrogate this target first. What the hell? Evasive maneuver. I hope you liked our rocket. We were saving it for a special occasion. Where is Shaw? Memories. Where is she? Agent Shaw? Why? Did something happen to her? Shaw's cover identity was burned eight days after one of your ISA operatives a guy named Grice, saw her in the field. The ISA is working with Samaritan, and Samaritan has Shaw. - It's got nothing to do with me. - Well, the evidence tells a different story. We tracked down four Samaritan agents who were at the stock exchange. According to their vehicle GPS they've been spending a lot of time outside your house in Georgetown. - What are you talking about? - Samaritan knows where Shaw is. And therefore, so do you. Either you talk to me now or I'm gonna invite Root in here to re-create the events of your last conversation. Good cop, bad cop? Really? There are no good cops here. Did you happen to see the terrorist I was chasing on that freight train? His name's Yasin Said. He's planning to attack a major American city and he was 60 seconds away from capture before you shot me with that shoulder cannon. Now he's loose. That's on you. Where is Shaw? I don't know. I'm almost glad you said that. Hello, old friend. Let's not get carried away. I'm sorry, can you repeat that? I'm deaf in this ear. Feel free to return the favor. But it won't get you any closer to finding Shaw. Can't return the favor. No scalpel. Besides, I'm not the monster I used to be. I've changed. Well mostly changed. Shaw used to work for you till you tried to kill her. You probably remember she has an Axis ll personality disorder which means technically she's a sociopath. Incapable of caring for others. But the thing about Shaw is she does care. Enough to save my life. So today I'm saving hers. And you're gonna help even if you care about no one. Not even your daughter Julia. Such a sweet girl. She deserves a better mother. How old were you when your mom died? I was 9. Nine, right. Then you started spending a lot of time in the nurse's office. All that anger. All that stress. That's when the high blood pressure started, right? You grew up motherless and you suffered for it. Well at least Julia has a mother. Because even a mom who kills people for a living is better than no mom at all. Over 500 people have died in police custody after being Tased. The most common factor among the victims hypertension. Especially when the officer did this. You tell me where Sameen is or Julia will know what it's like to be you. Go to hell. Stop it. This is not how we do things, Miss Groves. Please? Pardon their aggression. They're trying to save the life of a dear friend. Let me go and we'll call it even. Sameen risked everything at the stock exchange. Not just to save our lives but to pull the whole world back from the brink of disaster. All with the knowledge that no one would ever even know her name. Everybody here all of us spend our day saving the lives of people we don't even know. Each loss is unbearable. But when it's someone you know You think she's dead. You think Shaw is dead. And you don't have the guts to tell them. We don't know that, Finch. The surveillance footage from the stock exchange was unreadable. Why does everybody keep talking about the stock exchange? What the hell does any of that have to do with Shaw? Oh, you don't know. Samaritan crashed the stock market. There were armed men in the basement of the exchange. A massive firefight six stories underground. Sameen was shot. I admit to not seeing your angle here, Harold. Why spin this tale? A shootout beneath the beating heart of the American economy and you don't know anything about it? You're in the dark. And you're being kept there for a reason. How long until your employers decide to kill you? Oh, I see now. You're trying to turn me against my employers. Against my country. You expect much success with that, Harold? So desperate to find Shaw you're willing to say anything to me. You foolish woman. You don't understand. You're not in control of anything. You're just a cleanup crew. You're the janitor. Speaking of janitors here come a few now. You say that like we weren't expecting them. Unh! Surprise. Me and you need to have a little talk. Hello, ladies. You don't look so good. If you better understood Samaritan you would know it employs a private army to do its bidding. That it communicates with them on a private, encrypted phone network. You would suspect they would employ at least one of them as a spy in your own organization. You might even assume that spy to be among the agents coming here to save you now. Holding his private, encrypted network phone. And you would know that that's exactly why I'm here. Talk to me, Crimson. I'm blind here. - Does anybody have eyes on the target? - Yeah. I do. And another thing, the Red Wings suck. - You realize he's not from Detroit? - Still had to be said. You okay, Root? For now. I think this is good for me. - You almost done checking e-mail? - There are six ISA operatives on-site. I should see six identical signals. But I'm seeing seven. Six standard signals. One anomaly. The anomalous phone belongs to a Samaritan who's embedded with Control's operatives. I'm uploading a worm to that phone. The worm will scour the phone for any information relating to Sameen. And then 18 seconds later, move on to the next Samaritan phone and it won't give up until we find what we're looking for. Sorry, were you talking to me? What's your status, Harold? I'm not sure how much longer I can hold them. I'll be right there, Root. This is for Shaw. Sameen? You're Grice. She told me you let her go. She was a good agent. Mr. Reese, Root, it's done. On my way. Did it work? We got something. What, I don't yet know. Thank you, Harold. Let's get out of here. Did you really think you could run from me in Canada? How did you find me? There's a cell tower 12 miles from here suddenly doing business with some burners in Detroit. It's funny but the farther you ran, the easier you were to find. Why'd you kill my friends? That's what we do to terrorists. I'm not a terrorist. I'm an American. My dad works for Ford. My sister's a cheerleader. I'm a PhD candidate in software engineering. Which makes you a very dangerous man. Look Two months ago, I won this competition, the Nautilus. - What the hell is that? - An elaborate contest. Data security, steganography, cryptography. The next day, I got a text message offering jobs to me and my friends from school. The four of us crowded into one of those office park start-ups. Big paycheck, stock options. - We thought it was the next Google. - What was on your laptop, Yasin? I don't know. But it's not uncommon for coders to be kept in the dark. - That's how stealth companies work. - That's how terror cells work. This was a bioinformatics company creating climate change models. We'd write a piece of code and pass it on to someone else. Two days ago, we sent the last piece. - Ten hours later, everyone was dead. - Except for you. I'm not the bad guy here. And I'm sure Tariq, Massoud and Osman were just harmless extremists who conned their way into the United States on student visas. No, they were my friends. Maybe they picked us because that's exactly what you'd expect. Can you consider for a second the possibility you've been lied to? No. Are you kidding me, kid? - It was cute the first time. And even then - Just look at your computer, Mike. The stock market closed exactly where I said it would. So did your portfolio. It didn't have to be that way. Who the hell are you? I'd like to see the president. We'll be in touch. Eight hundred and fifty four and counting, Richelli. Sleep tight. I love you, Julia. - Bye. - Bye. Target engaged. Bull 's-e ye. Returning to base. I've just sent a set of updated GPS coordinates but I must warn you, our lead is a fragile one. Understood. A phone on Samaritan's network left the stock exchange in a refrigerated truck What's our final destination? I've traced the truck to these new coordinates to what looks like a small town upstate. That could be where the truck is located. Or it could be nothing. I know she's alive, Harold. Nothing would please me more. I know. I miss her too. It's normally pretty quiet on this level. But if the Pentagon wants a tour, the Pentagon gets a tour. Has the area been cleaned recently? I'm the head of security, lady. Do I look like a janitor to you?
I'll take it from here. Where's Shaw? Sameen risked everything at the stock exchange. You think she's dead? What's our final destination? I've traced the truck to these new coordinates to what looks like a small town upstate. We're late. Sixty-six hours, our rescue's overdue. Sameen's gonna kill us. She can't fault us for lack of effort. You've caused mayhem over five states. - We only have one clue to show for it. - One clue is plenty, it narrows focus. If she's in the truck. We find the truck, we find Sameen. Don't give up on her, Harold. I haven't lost hope. So this is where the truck disappeared? Maple, New York. Remember, our enemy is watching. Beyond the reach of our mesh net we need to speak with discretion and tread carefully. What's today's cover? Detective Alice Ginsburg. Got a new partner, Columbo. Lionel's gonna love that. Oh, that reminds me. I need to ask his assistance. Good luck, and please be safe. We will, Harold. Detective. Sorry to just drop in. What's the news? Sadly, none. How are you holding up? Just dandy. With the captain on my ass about the absence of my partner. I'm tap dancing as fast as I can. Well, I'm sure you're quite busy. Hey, glasses. You didn't come here to check on my mental health, did you? There was a small matter, but I can take care of it. One of those people needs saving? I'm all over it. I don't wanna distract you. I need some air anyway. Can't breathe in here. Unless Samaritan likes hot chocolate and cider we might've taken the wrong turn. We haven't. The founders' day committee would like to thank everyone involved in putting on this fair. Especially, Mayor Dowd. Today, we celebrate 212 years of history in Maple. The biggest little manufacturing hub in upstate. The town could use a better tagline. When you kidnapped Finch, the machine helped me to find you. We should ask it for a clue. I did. She doesn't know anything more than we do. There's only two roads into and out of Maple. Local P.D. should have security footage from the toll booths. I don't see why Samaritan would've spirited Shaw all the way out to Pleasantville. Don't judge the town by its cider. Monsters love small towns. Have you found him yet, detective? Yeah. Some schlub here with a tyke. The man is Albert Weiss. He's a sales associate at the Prime Hardware in Jersey City. He's in town to visit his niece, Rosie. This guy's a puppy who's been kicked too often. Who would wanna kill a sad sack like that? Glasses, someone else got eyes on this guy. Remember Dani Silva? Detective Silva is watching Mr. Weiss? Perhaps she has some information. She's IA. Even if I wasn't in your League of Misfits, I'd steer clear. Ah, damn it. Hey. Catching some sun in the park? Are you on the job or are you playing hooky, Fusco. - What, are you gonna write me up? - No. I'm out of Internal Affairs, I transferred to Gang Division. Are you here for that guy? He's in some kind of trouble, right? I think so. Weiss shows up in a couple cold missing person cases. He's on two different witness lists. Cases are years apart. Maybe he stumbled across something. Knows too much for his own good. Whatever he's into, it's bad news. We need to take a look at your security tapes. Chief, N.Y.P.D. here to see you. Someone didn't join the Mickey Mouse Club. The hell brings N.Y.P.D. here? We're investigating a homicide. That so? Nothing like that in Maple. Triple homicide in Brooklyn. Perp fled this way in a refrigerated truck. We need to check your surveillance tapes, see if he passed through. A truck, huh? If that's all right with you. Chief Wicker. Call me Wick. Come on then. Look at you. Some kind of Whiz kid? I'm good with computers. Heh, I got skills too. You fired a Remington 870P shotgun? Fight between a computer and one of those I'll tell you which would win. Serious stuff for a peaceful town. Wick loves his guns. You know, Wick had a scandal a while back. Abuse of power. But last summer, the mayor jumped him all the way to chief. Heh. Lucky son-of-a-gun. Hey, some kids are outside spraying graffiti on those patrol cars. What? One piece of footage is corrupted. I'm gonna need to take a look at the hard backups. The DVDs are locked in storage. You want them, you're gonna have to let me in on the case over drinks. Well, sure, if I can find the time. Don't be coy. I don't like coy. Coy is not my thing either. I never thought I'd say this but you gotta be more careful. You found the truck. It entered Maple and never left. Shaw's still here in town. Hold on, Shaw. We're close. Welcome to Maple. What brings you to town? Catching up with a friend. - How long you two had this place? - Laura bought it a half year ago. - Larry, go help her with that. - I'm fine. This doesn't weigh a thing. You sure I can't give you a hand? Rather not be disturbed. I got business to attend to. - Unh! - You elevate abduction to an art. Always travel with an empty suitcase. Never know what you might pick up. Yeah, but anyone realizes the chief is gone, they're gonna come looking for us. - We're fighting a clock now. - We're already on a clock. The longer it takes us to find Sameen Our rival hid the truck footage. Maybe they're hiding something else. - Unh! - Your surveillance any other footage corrupted in the last couple of days? I don't who you think you are but you two better Answer the question, chief. Setup's buggy. Video disappears time to time. Not recently though. When footage is corrupted, is it concentrated to a geographic area? How should I know? What's this got to do with anything in my You talk so much and say so little. I found the truck. It has an eagle-shaped hood ornament. I spoke to a rest stop waitress who had seen it. It was abandoned three days ago, now impounded. Let's move. As soon as I make Wick more comfortable. Here's a list of missing person cases by date. I got Weiss' credit card statements for the last eight years. Extracted the days that he was in town. What? I got them from a friend. No one's got your back on this one, huh? No, I don't have departmental approval. One of the missing persons was my witness. - I gotta find out what happened. - Dog with a bone. You'll make a good detective, terrible spouse. Nine times Weiss was in the city. Nine times the dates match missing persons. - That's more than just a pattern. - No way. This guy's scared of his own shadow and you think he's angel of death? He worked at a hardware store. Wouldn't be hard to get materials, make bodies go away. Come on. This guy wouldn't murder a fly. Hundred pounds of lye was stolen from his hardware store a few years ago. That would disappear, well, a whole lot of bodies. All the victims had gang connections. I'm thinking murder for hire. So you're saying that gangs paid this guy to take out sensitive targets? If you think about it, it's perfect. He looks more like a Maytag man than he does a hit man. You'd never see him coming. Works clean. He's never been caught. So gangs start using him as a freelancer. If he's back in town, that means some sap's about to take a bath in lye. - I'm coming with. - Weiss killed my witness. Thanks, but I got this. Look, if we're right about this, you're in over your head with this guy. You gotta deal with me. I think I know where he is. Got a nicer tie? Well, it's my lucky tie. Hey, eyes on the road. Keep your mind on navigating. We can't afford to lose any more time. You really are sure she's alive. You know about Schrodinger cat? There's a cat trapped in a box with something lethal. There's a 50 percent chance the cat's been killed. But until you open the box, there's no way to know one way or the other. Quantum physics says, before you open the box the cat isn't dead or alive. - It's both. - What about after you open the box? Reality collapses back onto itself. Cat's either alive or it's dead. Well, we're gonna see reality soon. But you don't bet against Shaw. No. Nothing kills that cat. His truck's out back. Something bothering you? Oh, you just You've cleaned up nice. Who would've thunk? - So, what's Weiss doing here? - High tea. Weiss brought his niece here for the past two days. I think he's casing a target. All his previous victims have disappeared from their workplaces. Left his niece at home, he's about to make his move. But who's his mark? Oh, it's my mother. I gotta take this. - Hey, how's your back, Ma? - Your mother? Honestly, detective. The restaurant employs one waiter with gang connections. Marcus Young. He lives in territory controlled by the 280 gang. Perhaps another gang wants him to disappear. You think a banger works here? He's here. Gotta go. It's Weiss' target. Yes, sir. Be right back with that. Whoa, no need for violence. - We're having tea. - Bullets go great with tea. Let's do this the easy way. Let me handle it, please. Hands in the sky. - Are you talking to me, detective? - What are you doing in here? I was told the bathroom was this way. - You're under arrest for trespassing. - What? It was an honest mistake. I didn't do anything. - You did. You resisted arrest. - Let's give them some air. What's going on here? - Unh - What the hell are you doing? Unh! Please, no. I'll do anything you say, just don't hurt me again. We've arrived, Harold. Let's hope the truck is here. Please be careful. - Thanks for letting us in. - I don't care, dude. Go to town. The guy reeks of tequila and it's 3 p.m. Looks like founders' day is the new Cinco de Mayo. His name is Mason Bauer. Deadbeat trust-funder. But his fund crashed four months ago. This is the first job he's had. We're here with Willy Clark, the luckiest guy in Maple. - What are you gonna do with the money? - I don't know, man. I don't know. But I knew today was gonna be great. If I was Mason, I'd be drinking too. Homeless man hit the jackpot. Luck is in the air. That's our truck. Did you find her? She's not in the truck. This is a medical drill and saw. Lost a lot of blood. Maybe they were trying to save her but this doesn't look good. I'm so sorry, John and Samantha. - It's not over yet. We'll find her. - The truck came here for a reason. Were they taking Sameen to a hospital? I've hacked the hospital's server. They haven't admitted anyone with her injuries. Why would the agent shoot Sameen in the head only to try to patch her up? Our enemy has strange methods. They found a use for her. Does the hospital have a neurosurgeon? I'm sending you his address. But please expedite a blood sample for analysis and verify that it is Sameen's before any heads roll. Heads won't roll yet. The people who hurt her deserve special attention. Dr. Victor Haskell, we need to talk. - Where is Sameen Shaw? - I don't know who that is. You worked on her three nights ago. I haven't performed any surgeries in months. I was fired. But I got a call that night. Someone was performing a craniotomy. He needed my advice. It wasn't going well. Then he hung up, I don't know who it was. The number was blocked. Did you call the police? Why not? Bad things happen here when you ask questions. Six months ago, Maple was on the verge of collapse. Eighty percent of the town worked for the textile factory but business was moving overseas. Then, a corporation bought it. Carrow. Saved everyone's jobs. Saved Maple. Then, things changed. - People protesting Carrow were killed. - In a manner. The mayor tried to get the factory to phase out their diesel generators. Then someone leaked the paper information implicating the mayor in corruption. He ended up taking his own life. And the new mayor Six months ago he was a gas station attendant. What's that got to do with you? I was on the city council. I was framed for medical malpractice. - Is the factory still in textiles? - No. Ms. Thompson runs the factory, repurposed it. They make a tech-thing now, transponders. I need to talk to Ms. Thompson. This is her? We saw her speak at the town square. You ask questions about the factory, you'll wind up dead. She controls everything. Don't worry about us, doctor. Samaritan runs the factory. Welcome to Maple. - Won't happen again, sir. - Thank you, detective. IA told me I go within 100 feet of that guy, I'd be suspended. What makes a man like Mr. Weiss become a killer? A guy like that, living an unhappy life Answers an unorthodox Craigslist ad. Finds he likes it. Some people are called to be killers. I found a lead. Weiss owns a home in Brooklyn under a false name. So, urn any news? I'm afraid things aren't looking good. We should be prepared for an unfavorable outcome. Just say it plain. She's dead, right? Hey. I got a lead. House in Brooklyn owned by Weiss. - You talked to the banger yet? - He's not a banger. Checked the Gang Division files, he's a witness. He saw a bigwig from the 280 gang kill three guys. But he won't testify. Marcus Young? Thanks for coming in. You, I saw what you did to that guy. You're in danger. The 280 gang hired that guy to shut you up. That old man? You gotta be kidding me. That old man's got a mean streak. Detective Fusco here will take you some place safe. I'm gonna go find that hit man. Weiss is dangerous. We need to work together. You got yourself sidelined. I'm a big girl, I can take care of myself. - Watch your back, now. - Around we go. I'm a winner. I'm a winner! That's Mason from the impound lot. He shot the guy who won the lottery. One guy's fortune goes up in smoke, another guy wins the lottery. Maybe Samaritan came here for the factory but it's expanded its grip to the whole community. It's playing with people's lives. Why? Look. There's our mark. Bring the car around. This is horrible. Founders' day is ruined, for that hooligan to do this today. I know. I know. Oh, my God. Whoa. - Where's Weiss? - He must have run off. You all right? You let him escape? Nothing useful on her phone, Harold. Swept the B&B, it's clean. We have to move fast. The voice finally tell you something about Sameen? - No, but Ms. Thompson will. - At a minimum, she may know what our rival is making in the factory, how it's manipulating Maple. If it recreates this in other cities countless people will suffer. - Right now I only care about one person. - I'm gonna take first swing at this. - All right? - You get 10 minutes. I'm warning you, the police will come looking for me. I wouldn't bet on it. I'd introduce myself but you already know us. What did you do with Sameen? - Who? - You know little firecracker, brown hair. I don't know who you mean. I hope you've got a good physical therapist in town. I don't know anything. I do what I'm told. I follow the instructions. What instructions? E-mails telling me where to go what to say, places to leave things, find other things. I do what I'm told, I get to live a nice life. If I don't They'd kill you. My real name is Maryann Holst. Six months ago, I was working at a CVS in Pittsburgh. I had a heart attack. I woke up with a new pacemaker at the Maple hospital. A blonde woman told me I'd been given a new job, a second chance but I don't know anything. You're a good liar. But I'm losing my patience now. And you don't want me to turn you over to my colleague here. She's telling the truth. Maryann Holst officially died in Pittsburgh six months ago. - It's her. - It doesn't matter, she's an agent now. I'll put you on a private line. John, you cannot allow Samantha to take over the interrogation. It will lead to the torture and murder of a woman who may well be innocent. Even if she was just obeying orders, she's responsible. Our friend is gone. I feel Sameen's loss as acutely as you but we can't become monsters. Thompson is hiding something. And if I can't get it out of her she can. My ears are burning. Do I get to come out and play? Please let me try. Please. Ms. Thompson, the transponders you make at the factory, what do they do? I don't know. I swear to God. Why did your supervisors turn the town on its head? What is the goal? I think they wanna make people happy. I've given so many people new jobs at the factory. Jobs they're suited to. Everyone is so happy. What about Dr. Haskell and the dead mayor? I doubt they're happy. The blonde woman told me: "A few must be displaced, so that the majority may thrive." Everyone rewarded according to their abilities. - But the things we saw today - There have been some recent changes. Mason shooting that poor man. Things have fallen out of balance like we're being punished. It isn't punishment. It's studying us. Our enemy hasn't had the time to learn the intricacies of human nature. So it's turned Maple into its own little ant farm. It took a broken town and rearranged the populous. First, it made things perfect. Then it decided to see what happens if you shake the ant farm. I promise. I never meant for anyone to get hurt. It's not good enough. She's our only lead. But she doesn't know anything. I haven't asked her yet. Your people used this on our friend. - Where is she? - John, you have to stop her. - Thompson is a puppet. - Thompson's lying. She knows something. We are not beasts. A little beastliness is just the thing now and then. Ah! I saw her. I saw the brunette woman. Please don't do this. - Where? - They were taking her into the factory. I can help you, I can help you get inside. I'm sorry that I lied. I had to, they'll kill me. Thank you for telling us. Honesty is always the best policy. John. Final question. You lie, this goes in your skull. When you saw our friend was she alive? Yes. Doesn't matter what happened or what you saw. You broke into his house. He fired shots because he thought his life was in danger. That's all the DA's gonna hear. - There's a kill room in that house. - If it still exists, good luck getting a warrant. If you hadn't shot up the basement, maybe I would have gotten a confession out of him. - I saved your ass. - I don't need you to save me. I couldn't stand to lose someone today. Listen, I went through the Missing Person cases and saw one other cop pull those files last year. Bill Buchanan from Jersey City Police. Then he went home and took a carbon monoxide nap in his garage. Maybe Billy made the same connections we did and got a little too close. So Weiss made him disappear. He might wanna do the same to us. I hope he tries. Here we go. Remember, one false move, you're dead. So have fun. - Evening, Ms. Thompson. - Hello, Dave. What brings you around so late? Just giving my cousins a tour. Of course. Welcome to Carrow. The security suite is in here. - My password is - Unnecessary. We'll have to move quickly after I shut down the cameras and alarms. It's just a skeleton crew tonight. It's not them I'm worried about. Microdots. Invisible GPS trackers probably. They are transponders. Stick these on your tech equipment, your kid's backpack, your keys. Carrow will keep track of it all. That sounds useful, right? Samaritan will have constant location data on everything. But it wouldn't have brought Shaw here to put a tracker on her. Where did they take her? There, but I don't have access. That area is classified. - You're on your own from here. - When the shooting starts, duck. It's polite to knock. Hey, Weiss. You're gonna make it look like she hung herself. Cute. I swear I never get caught. Yeah, well you're gonna have to break that promise. No, I don't think so. Unh! Here come the fireworks. Today's not the day to screw with us. You get one chance to run. Time's up. You try to be nice and this is what happens. Come on, Ms. Thompson. This is the factory's real project. These are neural implants to prevent seizures in people with epilepsy or brain damage. Look here. Transponder. The implants can relay information to Samaritan. Watching the people in Maple isn't enough. It wants to study us on an electrochemical level. They're gonna stick one of these in Shaw. We really are just pets to it. Pets don't carry guns. Come on. Please don't shoot. ROOT Look. Sameen? John, Samantha the blood from the truck the test came back. It isn't Sameen's. Please let me go home. Who are you? Delia Jones. You were in the truck? It was you the whole time? Have there been any patients here in the past three days? No, just her. We followed the wrong clues, Finch. Why was Delia at the Stock Exchange? She was a secretary there. She must have been shot in the firefight. They got rid of the witnesses but it seems they've brought Delia here to test the neural implant. - Root? - Your friend left. She found the reinforcements. We have to take Delia with us. I need to stay behind. I'm quitting my job. Well, good luck. And when they track you down, remember this by taking orders without question, you've destroyed this town. You deserve what's coming to you. They'll try to turn the cameras back on, hide your face. Root. Root? - Good timing. - Let's get out of here. Hey. Thanks for saving my ass. See, that's how you show proper gratitude. You Okay? It's my first kill. I had to. They ruled it a good shooting but I got assigned mandatory counseling. Hey, you stopped the killer. You saved Marcus. He's gonna testify against the 280 gang. Today's a good day. You're a real terror. You remind me of a friend. Couple of friends actually. You're gonna see a lot of death. Heroics ain't a job you carry easy. Dr. Enright is keeping an eye on Delia at the safe house. I've prepared a cover for her once she's healed. She'll have to hide. What about Maple? The factory has closed. Samaritan is pulling out. Maple may fall apart. People there will have to learn to fend for themselves again. - I sent you for nothing, I'm sorry. - We saved people, Finch. Shaw would be proud. And she'd understand what we have to do. Root might not, though. Good luck. She knows. The machine must know where Shaw is and if she's alive but she won't tell me. Miss Groves our only lead brought us to the brink of disaster. You and John came perilously close to being discovered. I care about her deeply. But if only for our own sake, we have to let her go. You gave up on her days ago. You really think she's dead. I wanna hold out hope. But hope is painful. We may never find her. We need an answer. I need an answer if Sameen is alive or if she's dead. Please help us. Please. Harold, what's she saying? Sierra, Tango, Oscar, Papa. - Sierra, Tango, Oscar, Papa. - Stop. Sierra, Tango, Oscar The machine is asking us to stop looking for her. Perhaps the machine does know, perhaps it has a plan. But for our own survival, our sanity I believe we must reconcile ourselves with never knowing the truth. Otherwise, our pursuit of it will consume us entirely. Goodbye, Harold. If this is the afterlife it sucks. I sincerely hope you manage to get some rest, my dear Sameen. You're going to need it.
We are being watched. The government has a secret system. A machine that spies on you every hour of every day. I designed the machine to detect acts of terror, but it sees everything. Violent crimes involving ordinary people. The government considers these people irrelevant. We don't. Hunted by the authorities, we work in secret. You'll never find us. But victim or perpetrator, if your number's up, we'll find you. Any word from Root? No new leads on Shaw? Any progress on the backlog of numbers we missed when Samaritan went on the offensive the ones I've looked into are already dead or locked up for the crimes we failed to prevent. Me too, but I found three that are open missing-persons cases. All three went missing during the same 48-hour period. - Trying to find out if they're connected. - Or still alive. I'll do what I can, but I'm afraid the unfortunate facts of having a real life have finally caught up to me. Professor Whistler has jury duty. And I can't ignore it for fear of attracting attention to my cover identity. You just have to try to get out of it like everybody else. And if I'm stuck on a jury when the next number comes up? Fusco and I can handle it. About that. After everything that's happened perhaps it would be best if we left him out of our operations for now. When we started, you told me we'd both wind up dead. This is worse. You're right. If we're shorthanded, we're shorthanded. We're not bringing anyone else into this. It's just you and me again, Mr. Reese. I don't care if I have bad reception, Terrence, we're rolling calls. Now get me on with Anton. We better be out of here by Friday night, you know? I got courtside Knicks tickets. Grading exams. - Where do you teach? - Oh, local college. I was high-school English teacher for 41 years. But budget cuts. I was pushed into retirement. I miss the students, well, some of them, but I have a lot more free time now. - I'm actually learning to knit. - Indeed. If you'll forgive me, I really should focus on some work. You're computerized, now, that's great. In public school, we barely had money for books and teachers, let alone fancy laptops. What in the? - Okay. Next group. - Oh, dear. Oh, dear. "Paladino, Mel. Everts, Riva. McDermott, Doug. - Whistler, Harold. - Ah. Rollins, Timothy. Blake, Emma." Oh, that's me. - I'm Emma, by the way. - Harold. Well, at least we'll both have a friend in there, huh? I need to be excused due to financial hardship. I am negotiating a multi-million-dollar deal. You'll be compensated for your time. Forty dollars a day. I hate cops. All cops. I'd never believe anything a cop said. Just like I don't believe what you're saying now. - Nice try, Mr. Rollins. - I don't really follow the news. So I guess I don't have an opinion one way or the other. - No challenge, Your Honor. - No challenge. No, I can't think of anything that would prejudice me in this case. I mean, except for the larger issues with our government. Issues? One can't really call it "government of the people, by the people" anymore, can one? Because we're all being watched by an intelligent supercomputer that's slowly but surely taking over the world. You can return to your seat in the gallery, Mr. Whistler. That's Professor Whistler, actually. Okay, that's our jury. The rest of you are free to go. What did I say about cell phones? Zero tolerance. - You are held in contempt. - What? No. I swear, it was off. That's not even my ringtone. It seems we have a seat to fill. Professor Whistler, your number's up. When I said I was looking forward to our next session I didn't expect you to make me wait so long. Is that your way of saying you missed me, Iris? Heh, heh. It's my way of saying you're not supposed to cancel mandatory sessions. Well, they didn't give me mandatory sessions because I'm good at following rules. Captain Moreno said you took unpaid leave. There was a death in the family. I'm sorry to hear that. Do you wanna talk about it? Okay. Then on to the good news. This is your last session. I'm signing off on you. Congratulations. You're sane. Or close enough. And you're free to go. Okay. Well - Thanks for everything. - Mm-hm. I'm sorry. "Missing persons"? - You lost, Lionel? - What's the deal with these three? The deal is they're on my desk, not yours. They're not homicides. So I was guessing this is part of our little side project? Actually, we're putting that on hold for a while. When I need your help, I'll let you know. Sierra Someday soon, your phone will have a little 5K on its screen a fifth-generation wireless technology that will make it run faster and work better. And that 5K will be there because of Caroline Mills the hard-working CEO of a major telecommunications firm who was gunned down in her own home by her own husband, Chad Bryson. You see, Caroline was about to earn her company billions and you're going to hear from witness after witness who will tell you that Chad, a failed entrepreneur, couldn't handle his wife's success. That their marriage was on the rocks. And that, out of jealousy and greed Chad Bryson chose to kill his wife Caroline rather than risk being left with nothing. Finch. We just got another number. I'm a touch busy at the moment. Yeah, but I think the machine wants you to handle this one personally. How can you possibly know that? Because I just tracked down our new number, and she's sitting right next to you. Well, I spent last night digging through Emma's digital footprint. You find anything interesting? Nothing she hadn't already told me yesterday. She taught high-school English for 41 years, and then was forced into retirement. Although, prescriptions for anti-depressants and appointments with a psychiatrist suggest that she's not happily retired. Nothing wrong with getting a little help, Finch. Certainly not, I just can't find any clues as to why she needs our help. Which means whatever is going on, it's probably about this trial. Might explain why she has enough clippings about this case to wallpaper an asylum. Yesterday, she denied knowing anything about it. Telling them what they want to hear to get herself on that jury. Looks like she's obsessed. Perhaps she's trying to get close enough to kill Chad. Or maybe she's one of those nut-balls who falls in love with a killer and she's after the prosecutors trying to put him away. Either way, she may be our perpetrator. Try to find out what she's planning, Mr. Reese. I'll keep an eye on her here. Hi, neighbor. Well Okay, Emma, bought any good murder weapons lately? Kind of busy, Lionel. I figured when you didn't show up for work. Thought I'd lend a hand. - I tried to track down your missing three. - Leave that alone. You're not the only one who can pull a missing-persons file. One of your three, his cell signal vanished in the armpit of Queens. I don't have a body, but there's a bar near here, until recently, belonged to Elias. Damn it, Lionel. I'm thinking maybe your missing person used to do business with Elias. Lionel. I said I could handle it. Just stay out of this one, okay? Yeah. John. Please tell me you didn't just shoot someone else. Not yet. But I was I thought maybe we could keep talking. Of course. - About what? - About things that have happened. Regular sessions. I'd be happy to. But you should know this will be more than a chat to make sure you're not about to snap. I'll be asking you some pretty tough questions. - Like what? - Like who are you, really? Because you're not a cop. My dad, three brothers, an uncle and two of my aunts, all police. I've been around cops my whole life and you, my friend, are not a cop. So how did John Reilly wind up working for the N.Y.P.D.? Does 9 a.m. tomorrow work for you? And you worked closely with Caroline, Mr. Ward? Senior vice president of operations. I was her right hand. Her death was a huge loss. Caroline was Infinince. Will the company fail without her? Oh, no. We're in good hands now with Dean Reston, our new CEO. And the 5K standard that Caroline developed is about to put us back on top. It's just a shame she won't be alive to see it happen. Did Caroline's success make her husband jealous? She did mention once they'd been fighting a lot. She was thinking about a divorce. - And when was this? - Two weeks before she died. Thank you, Mr. Ward. Would you say Caroline was an easy person to work for? Sure. Absolutely. Exhibit A7, Your Honor. A personnel report signed by Phillip Ward. Could you read to me from Page 6, please? "Attrition due to stress-related illnesses including migraines, ulcers and mental health problems have increased by 15 percent." Stress-related illnesses. Caroline's employees were so miserable, they were getting sick leaving the company in droves. Isn't it possible one of them killed her? - Objection. - Sustained. - Nothing further. - We will now recess for lunch. No. Karen. Karen, you do not have that meeting without me. I said we push so we push. If Emma's there to kill anybody she must be planning on using her bare hands. I couldn't find any evidence she was trying to buy a weapon. Perhaps her plan involves a method of attack you haven't considered. I know a lot of ways to kill people, Harold. She just pulled out a second phone. Are you seeing this, Mr. Reese? Maybe I couldn't find out Emma's plan because she's working with a partner. - Here's lunch. - Oh, good. Oh, my God, finally. Oh, thank you. Or maybe she's not a partner after all, but an unwilling participant. - Here you go. - Thank you. - Fiona? - She'll be okay? - Fiona, What's wrong? - It's an allergic reaction. She's in anaphylactic shock. She must have one of those EpiPen things on her, right? - She told the bailiff she couldn't have There's eggs in mayo, right? Call 911. We need an ambulance. She's allergic to something. - Emma's not the perpetrator here, Mr. Reese. Someone's trying to fix this trial, and they're willing to kill to make it happen. Our poisoned juror should recover, but she won't be back in court any time soon. An alternate will take her place. Whoever is using Emma to fix the trial isn't playing around. - Any idea who sent her those texts? - Not yet. But in the meantime, I think I know who's behind this. Looks like Chad Bryson hired some sort of a fixer to make sure he's found not guilty. Since we got Emma's number, they're probably planning to kill her and any other jurors who get in their way. They're trying to tip the scales of justice. We gotta tip them back. Hello, John. Been a while. Zoe. - What are you doing here? - I do a lot of business here. Especially when high-ranking officials get arrested in a hot tub with hookers and blow, and they need me to clean up the mess. So detective what are you doing here? Undercover work. It's a long story. Did you really think you could fix the Chad Bryson trial without calling me for help? Saw you snapping pictures of the jurors. And Harold's one of them. Thanks, we can handle this. Yeah, so one question: If business lady votes "not guilty," what's grandpa gonna vote? He's a cranky old man, she seems like a pain in the ass. She votes one way, he votes the opposite. - Guilty. - Good guess. Totally wrong. Do you see what he's doing? He's taking a drink after she does. That's called mirroring. It means that, whether he knows it or not, he has accepted her as the alpha. If she votes "not guilty," he will too. You got someplace we can go work? All anyone at our company wants is what Caroline deserves: Justice. Thank you very much. Excuse me. Alpha-bitch Lana, well, she would be fired in a heartbeat if her bosses knew that she was embezzling. Superfan Tim has a good-sized gambling problem and good old Mel has a 40-year-old illegitimate son that he hasn't told his wife about. We were trying to swing a verdict, Zoe, not ruin their lives. Well, a little leverage never hurts. Court is adjourned, Mr. Reese. What have you been? - Ms. Morgan. - Harold. - It's lovely to see you. - And so unexpected. John? A word? I thought we agreed not to involve any more innocent people in our work. Well, Zoe's not exactly what I call innocent. Besides, she insisted. Saying no to Ms. Morgan was never your strong suit, was it? Boys, are we gonna work or what? So unless there's some prosecutorial misconduct going on nine times out of 10, the person who wants to fix the trial is the person on trial. - Chad Bryson. I hacked Chad's accounts to see if any payments would help identify this fixer. Nothing unusual I could find. So whoever the fixer is, they're good. Well, they certainly picked the right person to sway the jury. Emma's smart, she's patient, she's likable. If Emma says that Chad's not guilty, people are gonna believe her. When you walk in that jury room, all Emma needs is reasonable doubt. You carry the burden of proof. And we need to get you ready. Okay, you've seen the evidence, you've heard the closing arguments you're all in the jury room and Emma says she doesn't think Chad did it. What do you say? Oh, well, based on all the evidence we've seen I think it's hard to imagine that he's not guilty. What about the trainer who saw him leaving the gym at the time of the murder? That's reasonable doubt there. I suppose technically every situation has some measure of uncertainty. Harold, this isn't science, it's law. Rational thought doesn't apply. Cell records clearly place Chad near the house when it happened. So? I hear they can be faked. I got a friend who can do it. Now, that's just cheating. I mean, look at what he says in these e-mails. Chad can't stand Caroline's success. That's one solid motive. Lots of people resent a successful woman. Doesn't mean he killed her. But lots of people don't have this much evidence saying they did it. Better, but it's still too polite. What are you, from the Midwest or something? - Yeah, I just don't think he did it. - Are you kidding me? Look at all of this. The divorce papers, the angry voicemails, the bloody footprint. Look at all that and tell me that Chad Bryson is not guilty as sin. At this point, my biggest challenge tomorrow will be staying awake. You got plans? The night's still young. Thought I might hit up some contacts see if I can find out who Chad hired to fix his trial. Unless you have something else in mind? I still got other work to do. Well, I'll be damned. You're interested in someone, aren't you? You don't know me as well as you think you do. I think I know you better than you know yourself. And whoever she is it won't last. People like you and me, we're great for a night, we're great for a weekend. But we really suck at letting people in. We're just not built that way. Sleep tight, John. When you said you wanted to talk I thought there would be more actual talking. Hm. So your whole family's police? Going back five generations. You ever think about doing the job? I went through the academy, actually. Graduated and everything. But I guess I was more interested in what was going on inside other cops' heads. Your dad disappointed? I think he was mostly just glad I was safe. When I was a kid he taught me so much self-defense that when my high-school prom date got a little handsy I wound up knocking him out and making a citizens' arrest. - Ha, ha, ha. - Poor kid's parents threatened to sue. - I actually did get sued when I was a kid. - No. I did. My dad was trying to teach me how to drive so I put our family's Oldsmobile through the side of our neighbor's house. Ha, ha, ha. I'm guessing you didn't get your license for a while. - I was only 8 years old at the time. - Ha, ha, ha. Are you and your dad still in touch? We lost him when I was pretty young, but l I never talk about him. Have you lost a lot of people, John? But you don't talk about any of them, do you? Why do you think that is? It's an occupational hazard. With the work I've done privacy becomes a habit. Maybe it's time for some new habits. Sometimes habits are there to protect you. - From what? - From life. From the way things go. From the fact that every time you get close to someone, you And you have seen clear evidence that only Chad Bryson had the means motive and opportunity to enter the home he and Caroline shared and to shoot her, not once, not twice, but three times in her chest. Now, Caroline needs you to speak out because her voice was silenced. How's Emma doing? She looks a bit worried, but given the circumstances, who wouldn't? Any luck locating the fixer so we can put a stop to all this? No. You'll just have to piss him off enough to bring him out in the open. We are in recess for deliberations. Showtime, Harold. In the interest of getting us home quickly, I can serve as foreperson. Actually, I'd like the job. With all due respect, ma'am, I handle rooms just like this one every day. And I was a teacher for many years. I know quite a lot about resolving disputes. Should we put it to a vote? Fine. Everyone for me. All yours. Okay, Emma made her first move. You need to come out swinging. Give them hell, Harry. Please don't call me that. Okay, should we get started? Well, this Chad person is clearly guilty. The voice-mail he left Caroline shows he had motive. And the cell phone places him at the house. Why would there be a print of his shoe in her blood if he wasn't the one who killed her? Yes. Exactly. What Harold said. This man is guilty. Wait. Wasn't Emma supposed to be pushing for a not-guilty? Only one person would wanna make sure that Chad Bryson is found guilty of murdering Caroline Mills. And that's the person who actually killed her. Finch, we've got a big problem here. Okay, I think Harold has made some very good points here. I mean, is there anyone in this room who isn't positive that Chad is guilty? We read this one all wrong. There's no way Chad's paying a fixer to have himself found guilty. So someone else is trying to fix this trial. That someone probably killed Caroline. We need to find that fixer and hunt the real killer. What am I supposed to do? - Stall. - Stall. Okay, let's put it to a vote. Who thinks the defendant is guilty? What the hell, professor? Weren't you all "give him the chair" a second ago? I may have been a bit hasty when we first walked in. But I got to thinking about what's at stake here. Chad Bryson's freedom, justice for Caroline's death. And I think maybe we owe it to Caroline to take just a little more time and really think this through. How much time, exactly? As long as it takes, I suppose. Now, let's just go through the evidence again, piece by piece. Unbelievable. I'm sorry, but I'm still not convinced. - And I don't think I'm the only one. - Harold. Ms. Vara and Mr. Paladino have come around to my point of view. - I said was I wasn't sure anymore. - That's reasonable doubt. Please, Harold. Now, if we could take one more look at that partial fingerprint No. There's nothing more to look at, nothing more to talk about. You have to change your mind. Come on, man. This is ridiculous. You're holding us hostage. Okay, okay, okay. This isn't getting us anywhere, so let's just take a break. So where should we get dinner from? Please tell me that you're making progress. You tell us. I'm sending you a technical report on Caroline's 5K system. Need you to translate into normal English. - Where did you get this? - Looking over the evidence we started to think that there might be a cover-up going on at Infinince. So I used some of your hacking tools to break into their servers. We found this in one of Caroline's deleted e-mail threads. Well, I can see why she deleted it. It's a consumer safety evaluation for their 5K system. The cell towers were operating at more than 200 watts producing ground-level absorption figures far in excess of the SAR limit of 1.6 watts per kilogram. Did you not hear the part about English? The 5K cell towers could microwave people. Exposure like that could cause any number of health problems: Nausea, migraine headaches, even cancer. Didn't Chad's attorney say people at the company were getting sick? And I think I know why. The prototype 5K tower was built at their corporate headquarters. You think one of the employees killed Caroline for making them sick? Caroline wasn't making them sick. She was trying to stop it from happening. After seeing this, she said she wouldn't sell anything that's gonna hurt people. She tried to call off the 5K deal. She would have cost the company billions. So someone at Infinince killed her to shut her up. And they framed Chad for her murder. Well, this might be our someone. Dean Reston. Was tapped to CEO just a few days after Caroline's death. John. Cell-phone video shows Chad Bryson in a heated dispute with his wife Caroline Mills two days before she was killed. Well, I think our fixer's fighting back. He suspects a mole on the jury he leaks this, and it cuts off our contact with Harold. The judge is having us sequestered until we reach a verdict. So forever. We're stuck here forever. No electronics, judge's orders. You'll get all your toys back when this is over. Don't worry, Finch. We'll keep an eye on you and Emma and find a way to get to the bottom What in the world? Harold. Now Where is your Internet connection? Morse code. "Relax, Finch. It's me." Please, stop pointing that thing at me. Don't worry. Pretty sure it's not loaded. Finch. Get out on your "Balcony now." Don't. Please, you don't have to do this. Yes, I do, or someone else will get hurt. Someone whose life still matters. No, your life matters. No. No, it doesn't. Not for a while now. I know someone's using you to fix the trial. And I know that you've only gone along with it to protect others. But we can't put an innocent man in prison. Chad Bryson didn't kill Caroline. Someone at her company did because she was about to put people ahead of a billion-dollar deal. Caroline had the courage to stand up for what's right. We'll help you do the same. Hey, Zoe. You'd be proud of Harold. He just got Emma to change her mind. Any luck proving Reston killed Caroline? Not yet. But I have a lead on the fixer's location. Three days before trial, someone at Infinince used money from a corporate slush-fund to rent an empty floor across from the courthouse. You got all that from their computer? Hell, no. But a magician never reveals her secrets. Now, you want the fixer's location or not? My friend is on his way to stop the person that's been threatening you. This will all be over soon. Do you know who's behind this? No. I got the jury summons. First time in my life it wasn't a problem. It sounded like fun. How pathetic is that? The night before I was supposed to report there was a knock at my door. I opened it. No one was there. There was a brown envelope. - Full of newspaper clippings about the trial. - Yes. And a cheap cell phone. There was a text. It said I had to get on that jury. And if I didn't follow orders people would die. - Why didn't you call the police? I started to call 911, but there was a gunshot. Paula, my neighbor, said that someone shot a bullet through their window. It barely missed her little girl. I got another text, "The next one won't miss." So from that moment on, I just did what I was told. Anyone in your position would've done exactly the same thing. He didn't pick you? He didn't pick Lana or Mel. Of all the people that were in that jury room that day he picked me. Why? Did he know something about me? Was it because I let them take my job? I loved teaching so much, and I let them take it away from me. I'm just a pushover. For them. For him. What else could you have done? He said he was going to hurt people. And he wasn't lying about that. But can you imagine how that would feel? To know that something bad was gonna happen and it was your fault if it doesn't get stopped? I know I'm supposed to say "allegedly" when I talk about this stuff, so here you go. I'm no expert on legal matters, but it's pretty clear - something ridiculous is going on - Any luck, John? We can't nail Reston without catching his fixer. Nobody's home. But I think he knows I'm here. Chad Bryson absolutely, positively undeniably - And I think I know why he's not. He only has information on 11 jurors. Zoe, that fixer we've been looking for, he's on the jury. He had Emma do the dirty work, and he was watching her the whole time. And he's in the hotel with her and Finch right now. What was that? Tim. Stay away from us. Oh, I'll try to keep my distance. That's the whole point of using Honest Emma, the schoolmarm to persuade people instead of doing it myself. Just like the rest of your life, you screwed this up royally - and now Harold has to pay the price. - No. Emma. See, poor Harold couldn't stand being the odd man out so tragically, he's about to take his own life. I warned you what would happen if you disobeyed, Emma. So this one's on you. Unh! Why the hell would you save me? Because I wanna see you stand trial. Your Honor, in light of new evidence the People are dropping all charges against Chad Bryson. Mr. Bryson, you're free to go. And the jury is dismissed. Thank you all for your service. Mr. Reston, how do you respond to allegations your company's 5K towers pose significant health risks? - No comment. Get me on the next flight to Beijing. Business in China? Or are you just trying to find some place that doesn't have extradition? Reston's a bean counter. He didn't know that there were problems with 5K, but you did. As Caroline's right hand, you had access to her home. And Chad Bryson, he may not have had a .45, but you do. I know who you are, Ms. Morgan. You here to make some kind of deal? Phillip Ward, you're under arrest for the murder of Caroline Mills. Actually, I came by to tell you if you needed somebody to clean all this up don't call me. You, on the other hand don't be a stranger. Hey, loverboy, your perp's ready to go downtown. But let me guess, you'll handle this. We're in public, Lionel. Look, I get it. After what happened to Shaw you and Glasses are worried the same thing's gonna happen to me. And you know what? It might. And I'm fine with that. You don't get to decide what or who I'm willing to die for. I made my choice a long time ago. So stop shutting me out. Yo, Richie Rich, let's go. Well, this is the most excitement I've had in quite a while. Heh, heh. I'm sure you'll be glad for things to get back to normal. Oh, actually, my normal sucks. I hate knitting. I think I might go back to teaching. And if this school district doesn't wanna pay me, then I'll I'll find one that does. I think there are lots of students out there who could use a teacher like you. Thank you, Harold. - For everything. - Mm. I've been thinking a lot about our last talk. And? For a long time, I've been afraid. To let anyone in. Trying to avoid getting close. To avoid loss. No matter what I do it happens anyway- Loss is inevitable. So is love. It's a basic human need, John. None of us can go very long without it. Well, maybe it's time for some new habits. - Still no word from Root? - No. But I shouldn't receive another jury summons for quite some time so that's something, I suppose. Made some progress on our missing three. They were all tight with Elias. So Fusco and I are thinking maybe Dominic's the reason they went missing. I thought we agreed to leave Detective Fusco out of our business for now. I tried. But he's like a fungus. We can't bring anyone new into this. We also can't do this alone. A conundrum I know all too well. After all, Mr. Reese that's why I hired you.
We are being watched. The government has a secret system. A machine that spies on you every hour of every day. I designed the machine to detect acts of terror, but it sees everything. Violent crimes involving ordinary people. The government considers these people irrelevant. We don't. Hunted by the authorities, we work in secret. You will never find us. But victim or perpetrator, if your number's up, we'll find you. Claire Mahoney's not just another number. Chess grandmaster at the age of 16. - Do you recognize this? - A nautilus shell? And a symbol for a very dangerous competition. The creator of the game isn't a hacker. It's Samaritan. Sorry for the precautions, professor. You're getting a tour from the founders. You wouldn't believe the freaks that try to get in here. What's the word, Riley? No weapons. Mild to moderate freakiness. Enjoyed that, did you? Incoming. Welcome to nerd nirvana. Fetch and Retrieve is one of the hottest Internet companies, John. They know how to attract appropriate talent. Why else would they hire a moonlighting N.Y.P.D. detective for their security team? To protect all limited edition action figures. And some of the most valuable search algorithms in the industry. There's a reason why people choose Fetch and Retrieve when they need to find something online, and this man is a large part of it. Calvin Mazer, chief technical officer. Professor Whistler. You didn't tell me that you did research into neuro-evolutionary systems because I can talk Al all day. - I hope so. My new book on algorithmic decision making could benefit from your expertise. And in return for our time, we get first crack at your most promising students, right? And that is why Lauren is our CEO. We got this. Perhaps now is a moment when you might get eyes on our latest number. Anna Mueller, moved here from Munich with her sister Jill when she was 14. Anna works here as a transcriber for something called VAL. Any idea what that is? I believe we're about to find out. And here's how we're transforming the world of search. Our latest app, VAL. For Voice Activated Lookup. Here. - Where does country? - Are tomatoes vegetables or fruits? VAL's a personal assistant. You want to find anything online, you ask a question like the ones you're hearing. VAL, how's Fetch and Retrieve doing in the market today? Fetch and Retrieve is up $1.87 today. Congratulations. Thanks to our algorithm and our transcribers VAL is the most accurate and most popular voice-activated search app in the country. Here comes Anna, Harold. So the transcribers create a record of each user's questions and check VAL's responses. Human intelligence - backing up an artificial one. - Exactly. - Now, let's find a spot where we can chat. - Yes, by all means. I'll take it from here, Harold. Harold, Anna just got a text from someone named Alek. Could be a boyfriend. Though from Anna's reaction, I'm guessing they're out of the honeymoon phase. Looks like she's been knocked around by someone. If Anna's in a relationship, it's anything but healthy. Yeah, Harold? How goes the moonlighting, Mr. Reese? Uncover any hidden threats? Do empty carbohydrates count? Pretty much the only thing here that's not shiny-happy-geeky is Anna. Any idea who her lunch buddy is? Naresh Prasad. He's a mid-level coder. Naresh, I think we should talk to someone about that user abnormality. There's nothing to talk about. I've already spent more time on that than I should. Let's do our jobs. - You're saying I should just drop it? - Honestly, as a friend, yes. Well, something's certainly eating at her, but what? I'm afraid Anna may not be the only one who's researching an abnormality. A new Nautilus puzzle has appeared nearly identical to the very first one I encountered down to a phone number that decodes to a set of GPS coordinates. Maybe Samaritan's recycling puzzles. Unlikely, Mr. Reese. The coordinates are on the shadow map. Samaritan wouldn't send players to a spot where it couldn't observe. Well, if Samaritan didn't make the puzzle, who did? Oh, wait. There's something embedded in the image on the poster. "You were right." Mr. Reese, I'm afraid you may have to handle Anna on your own at the moment. I think I know who created the puzzle. And if I'm correct, I need to hurry. Finch, Anna's leaving work. Let's see where she has to be at 9:00. - Get in. - Sorry, Alek. And now, let's introduce our contenders. Weighing in at 130 pounds from Astoria Heights, put your hands together for Melinda "Jay Jay" James! And from Bay Ridge, Brooklyn give it up for Anna "The Annihilator" Mueller. The Annihilator? Ready? Ready? Fight. Tap out. See? All that hard work paid off. Thanks, Alek. Finch, Alek is Anna's trainer. Now we know how she got that bruise. She's not a victim of abuse. She's doling it out. She's an MMA fighter. Which means she may be a perpetrator after all. Be careful, Mr. Reese. Careful with that phone. They're always listening. Claire? What's happened to you? The people behind the Nautilus game were worse than anything I could've imagined. They used me. But with your help, maybe I can break free. They found me. Please help me. About time you called. I was gonna send a dog on a search-and-rescue. Apologies, John, but that matter I was looking into took an unexpected turn. But I found Claire. Is everything okay? I'm endeavoring to make it so by looping a few security feeds. Can you manage without me a while? Sure thing. Turns out Anna won honors in both judo and kickboxing in college. Must be taking it to the next level by hopping in an MMA ring. She may find it more difficult. Professional mixed martial arts are illegal in New York. And amateur fights are plagued by gambling, organized crime and a lack of regulation. Any threat against Anna is probably coming from there. Be sure to take Detective Fusco if you need backup. Speaking of needing backup, you sure you got things covered with Claire? Yes. I'm afraid she needs my full attention. Finch, while Anna's at work, I'm gonna check out her and Jill's house. "S-FLUOROURACIL." Jill's getting chemo. Anna is not the only one with a fight on her hands. Forgive the morbid overtones. But this mortuary was the closest place I could find with the proper supplies. We're safe here for now. Here. Well, you're lucky, Claire. Three inches to the left and we'd have needed the embalming materials instead. I was about to thank you for saving my life. I realize I still don't even know your name. Before I tell you that perhaps you'd care to tell me how you came to be on the run. After I solved the last Nautilus puzzle I was taken in by this group. The game's purpose was to recruit people who could help them on their mission. Which is? Make the world a better place. Soon I was hacking databases, stealing information. And they wouldn't say from whom. Just that they were very bad people. But I've never really liked secrets. You hacked the group, didn't you? Turns out every mission I did for them led directly to someone's death. And not bad people. Ordinary people. One man, a software designer had just returned from holding his newborn granddaughter in his arms. They slipped poison into his coffee at the hospital. His name was Charles Wynn. And I'll never let myself forget it. That's when you chose to escape. Yes. To find you a man whose name I didn't even know. The one person who tried to keep me from going down the wrong path. If only I knew what the right path is. - My nose. - Give me back my game. Look, I don't care who took whose copy of "Full Metal Hellcat 4." You may be warriors online, but you can't go and hit each other in the real world. Now, you, clinic. You, incident report. Let's go. A text from Jill. Looks like Anna's avoiding her sister. Excuse me. What happened to Naresh? No idea. His stuff was gone this morning when I came in. Anna. Ms. Buchanan apparently wants to see you. - Ms. Buchanan? - Have a seat, Anna. Let's talk about this user problem you've been looking into. The one about Paul Zimmerman. Yes. I'm relieved. I hoped someone at the top would see the red flag I'm told you tried to contact this user about search requests he made using VAL. That's right, I did. Are you aware of our privacy policy? Yes, but this was A lawsuit waiting to happen. Drop it. Or we're gonna have to have a serious conversation about your future here. Maybe you should get back to work. Excuse me. Software's up-to-date. You're welcome. Thanks. You're welcome. Although, when you hear what I have to tell you you may wish that that was something stronger. Those people that took you in. They're not making the world a better place. They're remaking the world in the image of their leader. So who is their leader? A being that is willing to kill as many people as it takes to keep its own existence secret and its power intact, like your software engineer, Charles Wynn. It seems that he was a contract employee of a company called Decima shortly before they brought this leader online. Online? I don't understand. It's an Al. And it's called Samaritan. What's that? Two minutes ago, I had no idea. When I found out about all those people who died I took one last thing from the group's network. A raw chunk of source code from a set of old drives. Whatever was on it was labeled "Samaritan." You disabled that, didn't you? How? - I looped the camera system. - I knew it. You're a hacker, like me. Which means you are the one who can help me do what needs to be done. Together with this source code, you and I can attack Samaritan. And kill it. Let go of me. Pretty sure the lady doesn't want a ride. Let's get out of here. Hey. Hey, hey, hey. Remember me? Come on. Security guard from work? I'm a cop. From the looks of it, you need my help. You have no idea who those men were who attacked? No. Look, I still don't get why a homicide detective is following me. Unless, is this about Paul Zimmerman? Who? A few days ago, I was listening to users' questions to the VAL system transcribing them. And one user's voice kept coming up. How can I get help for depression? I need the number of a suicide hotline. Zimmerman can't be the only one who'd make a search like that. Of course not. And when they do, this is what happens. VAL, I need the number for a suicide hotline. Here's what I was able to retrieve. Now, look at what VAL sent Zimmerman when he asked the same question. "Five Painless Ways to End One's Life. How to Make Sure Others are Taken Care of After You're Gone." Zimmerman was a man on the edge. VAL essentially nudged him over. I sent an e-mail up the chain, but nothing happened. So I got my friend Naresh to help. He dug up Zimmerman's number, and I reached out to him. Turns out I was too late. Zimmerman killed himself the night before. So Zimmerman's dead. VAL helped it happen, and now they're after you. Maybe not just me. My friend Naresh didn't show up to work today. I don't know if he quit or got fired. - Or worse. - I'll go check on Naresh. You stay here where it's safe. Fusco will keep an eye on you. You bet. Just one more thing. Why risk your job for a stranger like Zimmerman? A few months back someone close to me, someone ill asked the same question Zimmerman did. If she asked VAL instead of me Let me guess. You need something that's a matter of some urgency. It's no wonder you're a detective. Could you look up death records for a particular body? - I think I can manage that. You got a name? - I do. Charles Wynn. Have you had a chance to look at the flash drive? No, not yet. What are you waiting for? Lie back for a minute. I need to check your wound. Come on. I keep thinking about Charles Wynn the man poisoned at the hospital by that group of yours. Which hospital was it? - New York General. - Big place. Easy to see how someone could secretly administer a lethal dose of What did you say? I didn't actually - Aconitine. - Aconitine. Unusual choice for an assassination. Tends to stay in the bloodstream. Is this some kind of interrogation? Just gathering facts. Stick that flash drive in your laptop, and you'll see I'm telling the truth. Perhaps. Perhaps. Or perhaps the moment I do so, a program in that drive will seek out every device my laptop's been connected to, everyone that's close to me and Samaritan will use that information to hunt them down which may have been your intention all along. A few hours ago, you were opening my eyes to Samaritan. Now you're saying I work for it? I called a friend of mine at the N.Y.P.D. The only Charles Wynn that died in the tristate area this year did so in a car accident. No trace of aconitine in his blood. Keep your flash drive, Claire. On my way out, I'll reactivate the cameras. Tell your story to Samaritan. You once said that you didn't believe I was a killer. That I valued life too much. Well, I believe that about you. You wouldn't just leave me here for dead. That may have been true once. But that was before I lost someone. Someone dear. She's gone now, and I won't risk losing anyone else. Goodbye, Claire. Charles Wynn died of a myocardial infarction caused by 9 milligrams of aconitine. He struck an oncoming car, hospitalizing the couple inside and somehow sparing the 6-year-old in the backseat. All of which you know if your friend read you the report. I don't have to read it. I know every painful detail. And as for Wynn's blood, aconitine only shows up if you're looking for it. With Wynn's history of heart trouble they weren't looking. Now, I am sorry that you lost your friend. But if you leave now, when you are dead wrong you're gonna lose me too. Jill's medical alert bracelet. She must be crashing hard. EMTs are on the way. I have to go. Okay, but I'm taking you myself. Moving on up, eh, Mr. Prasad? You're VP of data access, and a whole new office to prove it. Yeah. It all happened kind of fast. I know Anna Mueller would be relieved. She thought you got fired. Something about that Zimmerman issue. Just a mainframe processing glitch. The second I pointed it out, they were on it. - And then they promoted you? - Yeah. But, um, I'm not really supposed to talk about this. Confidentiality. I get it. Hey, Lionel. It looks like Anna's pal Naresh just got paid off by his superiors. If they gave hush money, they may be the same people trying to silence Anna for good. Where's the ambulance? They should be here. Hold on. I gotta go. Anna's sister's in trouble. Jill? Detective, can you call the EMT? So, what do you make of it, Finch? It sounds like VAL's code has been tampered with. Apparently, for the express purpose of manipulating Zimmerman's emotions. Driving him to suicide. They're gonna kill Anna because she won't let it go. A closer look at VAL's algorithm might tell us why he was targeted and what's at stake. All right, I'll get you the code. Good luck, John. The guys who took Anna must've hacked her sister's medical bracelet. I'll go after Anna. You access Fetch and Retrieve's servers. Whoa, whoa. Hey. Tech support's not exactly my forte, you know. Don't worry about it, Lionel. I know a guy who can help. Just so you know I had that. Come on, we gotta go. Why? I thought you were a cop. I am. But this is more paperwork than I wanna deal with. You Naresh? Who are you? N.Y.P.D. What possible business could you have here? This business. Paul Zimmerman. Whether you know it or not, you're neck-deep in an innocent man's death. Unless you help me out, your friend Anna's gonna be the next one laid out on a slab. What can I do? The right thing. Access Fetch and Retrieve's servers for me. If Samaritan's hunting us, let's hunt it back. Hey, Glasses, I'm staring at something I don't understand. Which is usually the part where you step in. Sending it to you now. It's a response algorithm for Fetch and Retrieve. Thanks, detective. I'll give it a look right away. Oh, no. A security guard is here. Blood on the keys. It's only a matter of time before he finds us back here. We have to do something. Come on, Claire. We need to cover our tracks. You're sure Jill's okay? There's two police officers guarding her. Nothing's gonna hurt her. I wish that was true. The last few months, she's been so sick and I've never felt more helpless. So I started getting up early, coming home late. Taking on amateur fights. Got me out of the house. Gave me something to hit. Something I could actually fight. So why do I still feel so helpless? The thing about fighting someone the questions are simple. Either you're beating them or they're beating you. But it's the harder fights the ones outside the ring that actually mean something. Everything else is a waste of time. I don't wanna waste any more time. I wanna take this fight to whoever's after me. John, I've just finished examining VAL's new algorithm. It turns out that Zimmerman was only one of hundreds of specific users it was designed to target. People whose search histories indicated depression, for instance. VAL sent results which would likely make their depression worse. But that makes no sense. I thought so too until I looked at the other targets. People in debt, compulsive gamblers. They represent huge markets for certain products. Payday loans, online poker sites, and of course, anti-depressants. All products currently sold by Fetch and Retrieve's advertisers. So the results are softening them up for the ads. They're creating vulnerable consumers. Even if it kills them. You figure out who is behind all this? The new algorithm was placed anonymously, but I managed to track down its source. It's someone we've met before. Can I help you? N.Y.P.D., ma'am. Naresh got mixed up in something. Wants to make it right. Ms. Buchanan, the VAL system's been tampered with. At least one person is dead, and my friend Anna's being hunted down. I'm sorry, but this all seems a little hard to believe. Are you sure? Come on, Naresh, I thought we understood each other. You keep quiet, everybody wins. Calvin, what the hell do you think you're doing? Cleaning up. Your weapon, please. All right, the last camera should be up in 60 seconds. Let's go. Once we're outside, we need to stick to the areas with no video surveillance. Luckily, I have a map. When I first met you, I had no idea you were this resourceful. No wonder Samaritan is hunting you down. You're more than just a thorn in its side. You're a one-man revolution, Harold. How do you know my? Wow. You know, I've played a lot of chess but that's the first time I almost beat myself. One slip and it could've cost me the game. I'll take your phone and your laptop. You're a fool if you think I'll lead you back to my friends. You will have to shoot me. Oh, come on, Harold. I'm not authorized to shoot you. Assuming you go with me peacefully. Go where? Well, we've been talking so much about Samaritan. I figure it's time you finally saw what it looks like. Sorry to keep you in the dark, Lauren, but when I found my new algorithm for VAL I knew I had to go it alone. Because you knew I'd never allow such a thing. It's your loss. The beta test was nearly flawless. Soon, VAL will shape the emotions of millions of users. Fetch and Retrieve will be one of the most powerful advertising and content delivery platforms. And if a few people commit suicide along the way, tough luck. I feel awful about what happened to Paul Zimmerman. But he was the unfortunate consequence of a successful test. And I'm not gonna let you or Anna Mueller or anyone else destroy what I have worked so hard to build. Calvin, you can't just kill innocent people. You'd be amazed what a private security corporation will do for the right price. Luckily, I can pay. You Will. Right hook, left cross. Nice body shot. Cross could use some work. - Stand him up, I'll go again. - I think we're good. Thanks, Lionel. Seems unlikely that Samaritan would set up shop in a place like this. Satellite surveillance has shown that they can cover thousands of miles I don't understand. You said you were taking me to see Samaritan. Harold. This is Samaritan. Samaritan's not trying to subjugate humans, Harold. It's trying to save them. Look around. This charter school exists because Samaritan analyzed our education system and decided there was a better way. It's the best chance the kids in this neighborhood have at a real future. But it doesn't stop there. Samaritan is planning ways to reduce if not eliminate food and water shortages. Projects that never would have existed without this evil AI. And these stories that you told me about data theft, murder. Charles Wynn. Charles Wynn died in a simple car accident. I told you what you wanted to believe. But here's the thing: Beliefs can change. Look, I wasn't supposed to bring you here, Harold. My cover was blown, I was to bring you in. But I just know in my heart that you have the capacity to make the right choice. Which is? Join us. The world out there needs saving, Harold. Together with Samaritan we can start. And if I refuse? Last chance. Well, I truly admire what's been built here. And you may be right. If the world needs to be saved, then perhaps this is the most efficient way to do it. I still have one question. Samaritan was willing to shoot you to get me to believe what it wanted. How far will it go to get these children to believe? Take him. Nice to finally meet you, Claire. Give your boss a message for me: Hi. Unh. Come on, Harry, gotta let this one go. So, what now? A few days off from work? More than a few. Not sure I can go back there. But these amateur fights have got me thinking. Maybe there's a future somewhere else. Maybe a city where you could go pro? They'd pay a lot more for each fight. Yeah. But for now, there's a more important one right here. Thanks, Riley. Your sister's waiting. New laptop? - What happened to the old one? - Claire has it. Which means Samaritan does. Root? You're back? For about eight more seconds. New mission? There's a lot that's new. Root, Claire, Samaritan. Mind catching me up, Finch? Claire played me and very nearly won. If Root hadn't disabled Samaritan's cameras and saved me I'd be in the hands of the enemy. However, there is a glimmer of hope. I planted a tracking beacon in the laptop Claire stole. Nearly there. - No more glimmer. - Indeed. This game was played to a draw. We found and destroyed the GPS beacon embedded in the laptop's core, sir. It was artfully placed. I have no doubt. And what about its networking history? Wiped clean, I'm afraid. Keep looking. And be careful. A laptop from this particular person is hardly a benign treasure. It's my fault, Mr. Greer. - If I hadn't taken him to the school, if I just - Come, come, Claire. You did your best to turn him into an asset which was, after all, your mission. And it's your steadfast belief in your mission, in Samaritan that makes you so special. So unique. Just one thing, Mr. Greer. The sniper shots were supposed to miss. To scare Mr. Finch into trusting me. I could've died out there. For a good cause, my dear. All for a good cause. Sorry to interrupt, but you need to leave if you're going to make your meeting with Mergers and Acquisitions. - Oh, yes, an intriguing company. Making strides in the realm of simulating and manipulating emotion. And whose stock appears primed for a fall. Such a pleasure to meet the founder of an exciting venture like yours. What shame to see you've hit a rather tragic fork in the road. Shall we see if together, we can't choose the right way forward?
We are being watched. The government has a secret system. A machine that spies on you every hour of every day. I designed the machine to detect acts of terror, but it sees everything. Violent crimes involving ordinary people. The government considers these people irrelevant. We don't. Hunted by the authorities, we work in secret. You will never find us. But victim or perpetrator, if your number's up, we'll find you. Harper Rose. Is she a grad student, Finch? Ms. Rose is an anthropology major from upstate New York, Mr. Reese. Studied abroad in Europe, took time off to travel. Typical college student. Atypical, only in that the machine did not generate her social. It gave us her college ID number instead. That's a little odd. Any other issues? Just with a roommate. Harper put in a written request for transfer to campus housing. She moved into a new single this semester. I'll look into the ex-roommate. You back on campus? I gotta say, it's quite invigorating being around all these idealistic young minds. You must be enjoying your day job, professor. As near as I can tell, college has become an overpriced Bacchanalia. Full of entitled, oversexed binge drinkers. Well, somebody's gotta pay your salary. Wait. She just switched backpacks. Hang on a second. Oh, no, no, no. That's not a bone. That's a Bontoni - Protect your right to privacy. - Want to help us stop big data? I'm picking up a dozen cell phones, Finch. All registered to different users. You are in a college dormitory. Come on, Finch, within a 15-foot radius? Creep. This is a women's floor. Right. I was just leaving. I think she's heading to another floor. - Hey, boo. Heh. - Hey, babe. Thank you for covering my shift. - I feel like I'm coming down with something. - Yeah. It's called "Far Cry 4." And the munchies. Hey, I need a break, okay? The boss man's got me doing cash bank runs every day. The dude is bugging out with all that cheddar. Look, I can handle Noah, okay? All right. - Hit you up later? - I'll be here. Harper's gentleman friend is a Trey Wender. An uninspired student with a half dozen misdemeanor arrests. Any violent crimes? "Possession of marijuana, attempt to sell marijuana possession of a controlled substance." No accounting for taste. I got Harper in sight. This job is way off campus. Finch, that shift she's covering for Trey, he works at a dispensary. Medical marijuana? Do what you love, you'll never work a day in your life. State regulations require a dispensary card for every patient. - How fast can you get me into the database? - Let's see. Detective Riley suffers PTSD from multiple gunshot wounds and Chronic back pain. Back pain is better. I'll have Dr. Tillman call it in. It won't take long. That was easy. How do you know so much about getting marijuana? Mr. Reese, you want me to call this in or not? On the job, Harold? Ms. Groves. Good to see you're still on task. The world could scarcely afford to lose another pot dealer. - Sri Lanka? - Mm. I know you prefer sencha green, but their black tea is to die for. I did as you asked. I stayed away. You did that for your own reasons, Harry. What if you're going about it all wrong? Maybe we should be looking for people to enlist. Against Samaritan? How can you say that after? Everything that happened? "Everything that happened," is that her name now? You didn't wanna talk about Ms. Shaw. Let's talk about the 7.1 billion people out there, Harold. And the odds that a few of them just might give us an advantage over a runaway artificial intelligence. What's the machine proposing? She wants me to build an app. For what purpose? I don't know yet. But it's gotta be a killer app to get the attention of the right people. Anyone in particular you have in mind, Ms. Groves? Looks like you've got your hands full, Harold. I can handle it. And this is for you. To die for. Detective John Riley. PTSD. Been shot multiple times. Sweet Mary Jane. This place is legal? According to state, not federal government, which means that it's still a cash business. Wow, they must be raking it in. They can't find banks that will take it. And the banks can still be prosecuted by the feds for taking illegal drug money and they risk having their charters pulled. - So where does all the money go? - Good question. It's like the Wild West or Prohibition all over again. It just makes these dispensaries big, fat targets for criminals. And our number is right in the thick of it. Thanks. Skulk and dagger, what are you having? Something for my back. Right. You're new here. Uh, try the Kona push pops over there. Thank you. What happened to Trey? He's supposed to make a deposit. You can't send burnouts to the bank with cash that smells like skunk weed. - They're not stupid. - That burnout was your boyfriend. You have a better idea? Biggest banks in the world have been cleaning cartel money for years. Just gotta pay the right guy. That's money laundering. We're not criminals. This is a legal business. Cash has to go somewhere, boss. What do we do with tonight's haul? Make a transfer to a secure off-site holding facility. Security detail's sending multiple cars. - Right now? - Let them in the back, close up the shop. Clock out. Sounds like our anthropology major has been studying economics. They're closing up shop, Finch. It's a cash pickup. They vary the times, vehicle routes. That does not sound good. Even worse, these guys aren't standard transpo. They're Brotherhood. Dominic is getting into legalized security. Get out of the car! Cartel. It's an ambush. Oh, my God. What just happened? Who the hell are you? Your lucky day. They were tipped off. They knew your pickup time. What the hell? - Damn. The bags were switched out. - Where's the cash? I'll be right back. Finch, Harper knew more about this cash pickup than she let on. - What are you doing? You lost your mind? - Do I know you? Your life's in danger. - You're that fake cop back at the store. - What? If you were a real cop, I'd have been arrested by now. I guess we're both good at role-playing. Beat it. - I'm not going anywhere. - And I'm not going anywhere with you. Trust me, lady. You need my help. Like a hole in the head. Keep it moving, Kush Pops. I got this. Give me the bag while you still got a chance to get out of this. All right, fine. Take the cash. Good choice. Thanks. Mr. Reese? Have you got our girl? No. And she's definitely no one's girl. Well, her number just came up, again. And I think I know why. Harper isn't who we thought she was. She definitely isn't interested in our help. Mr. Reese, are you at Harper's dorm room? Just let myself in. Finch, in addition to grand theft Harper has been taking up a collection on campus. Or whatever her real name is. I've looked into the issues with the ex-roomie. It appears that the real Harper Rose took this semester off for mental health reasons. Apparently campus housing doesn't know it yet. Multiple cell phones, IDs. Either she's a serial killer or a chameleon who changes her identity like socks. That's the reason the machine sent us her number before she changes identities. Finch, Harper has been tracking the dispensary cash deposits for weeks. Last night's robbery wasn't impulsive. It was planned. She's not a student. Definitely an operator. What about the boyfriend? It was an inside job, after all. Something tells me she wasn't all that into Trey in the first place. And as for college I think she just dropped out. Hey, this is amazing. Little Ms. Mary Jane has aliases connected to over a dozen other criminal cases. She's been busy. Some were girl-next-doors brought in for questioning but their alibis checked out. She stole their identities to commit the crimes. So, what are we dealing with? Grifter, con artist, thief? Likely all of the above. I don't get it. We're supposed to protect her or arrest her? Maybe both. But we have to find her first. And I'll bet she changes residence as often as her identity. - Time we split up. - Hey, whoa, there's a lot of names there. What's your pal Mr. Peabody doing? Nicely done, Ms. Groves. Smells like money. Cash crop. How's business, Noah? Dominic. Things were good. Till last night. Since you hired me to handle security and transport I should look into the situation directly. - These guys came out of nowhere. - Not nowhere. Mexico. They were cartel. Why steal? I'm nothing compared to what they have. Dispensaries are taking millions out of their pockets all across the country. That money needs protecting and washing, that's the kind of business they wanna be in. Too bad I already beat them to it. All the way up the I-95 corridor. Somehow they knew when and where to hit us. - Not me. They didn't do most of the damage. - Who did? Some cop in a suit. When the shooting started he came out of nowhere. Blasting everyone In the kneecaps. Detective Riley. Yeah, that's him. He was a customer when it all went down. - Of course. - The cash went missing. Someone switched out the bag it was in. The cartel didn't get the money. I don't like losing a shipment or manpower, so we gotta clean this up. Scorched earth, you feel me, Noah? What does that mean? - Who else was working there last night? - Guard at the door, stock boy. - Girl named Harper, hired a month ago - Where can I find her? I don't know. I tried calling, she didn't answer her phone. She's just a college kid. Her boyfriend Trey vouched for her. Okay. Where can I find this Trey? Mm. Yeah. Score. Harp? Not tonight, sweetheart. A couple of differences between me and your girl. One, I would rather do a dime in Rikers than your half-baked ass and two, I only take what's mine. Where you been, Trey? I don't know, here, class. I mean, maybe not class, but Whoa. Sit. Right. I got friends upstate doing hard time for selling weaker schwag than that. I'm sorry? Now that government's gone made that OG dank legal, taxing it, ain't that a bitch? Yeah, the government, it's pretty diabolical. Do you want some ice cream? - I don't know what you want from me. - Oh, sure you do, Trey. We want the money back. And we want your girl. Time to take a little trip. You want me to cut a deal. I'm not that guy. The way I see it, Jorge, you should be begging me for a deal. You and your cartel buddy shot up a medical marijuana dispensary last night. I told you, man, I don't flip on nobody. Hey, that guy out there. He looks familiar. Is he a witness? This who tipped you off about the cash delivery? Maria. She's not long for this world. - Maria? - What, that's not her name? Not even close. She lied about her name? Didn't tell us that the Brotherhood was handling a security transport. Who's that gringo with the suit there? One thing at a time. Tell me where I can find Maria. - Where did you meet her? - Club Boost. A couple of weeks ago. She said that her favorite DJ was gonna be playing there. That girl loves to dance. Oh, my God. Fiona, this club is off the hook. - How did you get us in? - The owner and I, we go way back. You guys want more bubbly? - Free champagne. - Yeah! - We need to talk. - Oh, we already did. We were interrupted. Right. Sorry about the knee. But I can tell you're the kind of guy that doesn't take no for an answer. Champagne? Where's the money? I spent it. All of it? Already? I paid some bills, balanced my checkbook. And what do you know? Turns out, I owed some other guys some money. A lot of money. What other guys? The guys who own the club. We're square. They even threw in bottle service to seal the deal. We're leaving. Now. If you don't mind, Fiona would like to get back to her girlfriends. Oh, Harper, you didn't just steal drugs, you stole from Dominic. Don't look now. We've just been spotted. - N.Y.P.D. Come with me. - I don't feel like spending tonight in holding. You really wanna do this? Come on, you. Yum. Thanks. I'm starving. The cuffs are a bit over-the-top, don't you think? Even for someone like you. Someone like me? I know cops. Your friend here, he's the real deal. I bet he bleeds blue. But you, you're playing make-believe. My guess is former military with a side of hero complex. What makes you say that? You military folk have all the same tells. Posture, the hair. It's like they make you in a factory. Not bad. Well, thank you for that analysis. Now, let's just focus on you. You're in trouble. Dominic wants you dead and he's good at getting what he wants. What I don't understand is why the cartel showed up when they did. Maybe a little birdie gave them a heads-up there'd be some money changing hands. So the cartel swooped in to knock off the cash only to realize they were left holding the wrong bag. Worked beautifully too till your partner started playing hero. I don't know about the cartel but Dominic's not about to let you off the hook. Don't be such a drama queen. Stealing from criminals is a victimless crime. Unless you're the victim. Detective? - I got her, Harold. - Good, but that's not why I'm calling. We have a new number. - Ms. Harper's friend from the dorm, Trey. - Dominic must think he knows something. I went to his dorm room, found it empty. I couldn't tell if the disarray was evidence of a kidnapping or just a dreadful sloven. In either event, you should make sure that Ms. Harper doesn't leave your side. Your buddy Trey is in trouble. Dominic must be after him because of you. Who was on the phone? Did you? Did you even answer a phone? Is there something in his ear? It's John and his friends, it's kind of like their thing. They know stuff. Sounds very technical. Look, Trey doesn't know anything about me. He doesn't even know my real name. What is your real name? I think I'll keep Harper for now. I like the way that sounds. So, what's gonna happen to Trey? We have to get to him before Dominic realizes the kid's useless. Let's go. We got all manpower flipping cash for gift cards, money orders up the Eastern seaboard. I don't need cash. I need ones and zeros. Get me more gamers. Agh! Ow. Where is she? I don't I don't know, man. I told you. Your girl stole from me. She got too close to you and Noah which means she knows things, things she shouldn't. - Harper's some girl I was hanging outwith. - Name's not Harper. Girl's a grifter working fools like you to get what she wants. No way. What about Detective Riley? - How does she know him? - Who? No, come on, dude. Come on. Come on. I don't know who that is. I wanna believe you, Trey. It's because of guys like you, I'm taking my business to the next level. It is? You and your video games. See, the dispensary owners have a bank problem. So they have to hire guys like me to protect them and all that cash. Then I see guys like you spend thousands on games. Warriors of the realm. Turning real currency virtual, cold, hard cash, for fake gold. All I needed to figure out was how to turn that into real money again then transfer it into a bank account. - Hey, that's really smart. - Yes, it is. - Now I feel that's all been jeopardized. - She's not gonna say anything. - No? - No, she's not. I hope not. Because if she does you won't need to worry about studying for those finals. We should kick this know-nothing fool. He got played clear and simple. No. With Riley in the mix, she'll be coming back around. As far as I'm concerned, they're both loose ends. - Do you live here? - I own the apartment. Excellent non-answer. What about Captain Laconic? He work for you? Detective Riley and I are partners. Didn't see that coming. Harold, I'm gonna need that cash. It's all there. The withdrawal put a sizable dent in our reserves but I think the lives of two people are worth that sacrifice. Where are you going with that? Paying off Dominic. It's the only play to keep you safe. I've been in way deeper than this. What about Trey? Does he have as big of a death wish as you do? You guys are making it seem like I knew he was gonna get kidnapped. Maybe you'll think about someone other than yourself next time you steal from drug dealers. Don't let her out of your sight. He's a real live wire, huh? CIA or Special Forces? Mr Uh, Detective Riley is a complicated person. And you? What's your story? You fund some kind of alternative private military contractors? We like to think of what we do as a community service. - Why? - Why what? You two are obviously helping people on a regular basis. This ornately decorated apartment that no one lives in. Which means you probably have a boatload of money and much better things to do with your time than to just stick your neck out for people you don't know. So why do it? Everybody deserves a champion. - Where do you get your information? - I'm good with technology. A hacker. You're a guy who needs order. Coding is good for that. It channels the OCD. It fosters the illusion of control. You should stop gripping the wheel so tight. Try turning into the skid. And you prefer disorder. Why swim upstream when you can ride the current down to the waterfall? What happens when you reach the cliff? I'll let you know when I get there. That's an interesting take on life. It's freedom. I steal from criminals because they don't call the cops. I don't plant roots, I can bail at a moment's notice. Sounds more like running. An antique art deco engagement ring. About a carat. Is it a family heirloom? It's just a piece of tin that I stole from an old lady who tried to screw me over. You got anything to eat around here? - I got something for your boss. - Right here is good. In exchange for the kid and for the girl's life. Don't know what you're talking about, detective. You're welcome to leave the cash, though. Where's Dominic? He's unavailable. But like we said, you can leave the case. That's not gonna happen. I'll take that. My number for your boss when he's ready to talk. Or I can keep kicking his ass from a distance. Whatever he prefers. I can't tell you how excited I am about what you brought to us. - I needed your company. - I thought it was a simple app but it's a truly sophisticated build for a mobile platform. You, uh, work with an incubator? Not on this project. It's just me. - What partnership are you looking for? - Combining my software with your compression algorithm will save me time and money and allow us to sell it at a lower price point to the consumer. If you're interested in partnering up on something so small, of course. Well, I imagine the boss will be as impressed as I am with what you've created. So, urn, why don't I call you once he weighs in? I look forward to it. Tell me something. Why bring it to us? You could have gone anywhere. Your boss's reputation precedes him. Got your message detective. I'll give you the money you're owed if you agree to stay away from Harper. And I want that kid back in one piece. Okay. It's a deal if you decide to tell me who you really are. Because you're sure as hell no detective. Well, you saw my card. It says "John Riley. Homicide detective." That's me. No real cop would pay off the debt of some homeless grifter. Well, I'm not like other cops. We finally agree on something. You and me, this isn't personal. It's just that you keep trying to hurt people and I don't like it when people get hurt. - Why does Elias get a pass? - Well, he and I have an understanding. He stays out of my way and I stay out of his. - That right? - That's right. That's how it works with Elias. But you already know that. Just like you know he's coming for you. I'll be ready. But as for us, if I stay out of your way, you will show me the same respect? As long as you stop trying to kill innocent people. The girl's not innocent. Well, that's up for debate. How about I give you Trey and you give me the girl? That's not gonna happen. I got him. He pulls anything stupid, I'll pull the trigger. Which one is it? One of the pretty little brunettes, or your partner, Detective Fusco? You're not gonna kill an unarmed man. I know that much. So I guess this little talk is over. For now. You can stand down now. Looks like your little parley didn't do us much good. Harper is still in trouble and her stoner boyfriend's probably dead. Always looking on the bright side, aren't you? Okay, Detective Sunshine, what do we do now? The tall drink of darkness failed to dazzle Dominic with his witty banter and briefcase full of cash? We'll discuss our next option when he gets back. It'll be too late, you know how these guys work. Shoot first, don't ask questions later because the person's dead. I put my life at risk knowing the stakes. Trey didn't. So I'm gonna rescue that dummy with or without you guys. I'll have a much better chance if I got some backup. What do you propose? You're good with technology, right? Chica wants a word. Send her over. I knew you had huevos, but I never thought you were stupid. Don't be so mad, Alfonso. You got his nephew in a lot of trouble, little girl. You set him up to fail. Cops got involved, he got shot. I'm gonna make it up to you. Nico, jefe. I have no interest in starting a war with the cartel. I like the way my head looks attached to my shoulders. Oh, we should have waited for Detective Riley. Dominic's been consolidating power in this town. - Half the gangs work for him now. - Tell me something I don't know. You're losing money hand over fist with this legalization nonsense. You want what's yours, let me help you. - How do you plan to do that? - Dominic's laundering cash. A lot of it. And he can only do that one chunk at a time or the feds will catch on. - Do you know what that means? - He needs to keep the cash somewhere. Bingo. And not just hundreds of thousands, but tens of millions. Alfonso. You got my attention. What do you need? Have your boys put the word out that you found me. Dominic will have to reach out to make a deal. Then you leave the rest up to me. Nice job, Ms. Harper. Cartel took you straight to Dominic's stronghold, just as you thought. If you're wrong, you're dead wrong. Finch, Harper's inside with the cartel. I'm moving into position. Hey, I got something in the all Unh! What now? I need to get to the roof, to get to Trey without busting through the warehouse. You're going along with the con girl's plan? Finch trusts her. Sort of. That's a real vote of confidence. Where's the money? What money? Agh. Huh? - Whoa. - You don't wanna do this, Nico. - We agreed to a trade. - I know, but there's a problem. I've got nothing to trade. Had the money taken to a more secure location. What? That was cool. Hey, Trey. I'm John. I hope you're here to rescue me, these dudes are not messing around. Your friend Harper sent me. I knew she was into me. You set us up. - Dude, what is this for? - You ready? - For what? - Hang on. Awesome. Wait, what happens now? Cool. On the ground, now! Get down! Hands where I can see them! - You! Stay where you are! - On your knees! Move! What did we do? Serial number's filed off. That's one felony. I'll think of some more on our way to the station. You're welcome to inspect our weapons, detective. They're registered for use under my private security protection, transportation service. Squeaky clean, huh? Hands where I can see them. Empty your pockets. Everything out. These guys can go. Check these weapons. - Walk. - Come on, up. Got a call from Noah. Appreciate the heads-up. What's your angle? I figured you'd stop trying to kill me if I prove myself. Getting rid of the cartel seemed like a good deal for both of us. Especially because they wanted me dead too. - We good now? - For now. - What about Trey? - This was never about him, anyway. You wanted a face-to-face. With me. Lady bold enough to steal from the cartel and my guys clever enough to get away with it. Makes you a force to be reckoned with. Someone I could use on my team. When you're done playing vigilante with that fake cop, come see me. Where's the kid? Harp. I'm happy you're okay, Trey, but I think we need to break up. What? What did I do? Don't try to figure them out. Come on, I'll give you a ride. Your app is truly special, Shannon. The code, it's the most elegant string I've seen in years. I really appreciate the support. This is like a dream, just being in the room with the great Caleb Phipps. Oh, you give me too much credit. Please, sit. So where did you learn to code? Uh, I'm kind of self-taught. Me too. I think most of the best programmers are. I told Shannon you wanted to discuss something with her. Yes. Down to business. We were wondering if you have any interest in working on something with a team. You mean for you? I never considered myself in that league. You absolutely are. It's for a new security software we're developing and we could really use someone with your skills. So, what do you think? I'd be honored. You guys were right. I totally needed backup. You should stay out of trouble for a while, Ms. Harper. What's the fun in that? You are a good man, Harold. And you, thanks for reminding me that it's not just my ass on the line. - You ever hear of right of way? - You're gonna pay for this! Finch, I think she just stole your watch. Oh, that's okay. I stole her ring. She knows where to find me if she wants it back.
We are being watched. The government has a secret system. A machine that spies on you every hour of every day. I designed the machine to detect acts of terror, but it sees everything. Violent crimes involving ordinary people. The government considers these people irrelevant. We don't. Hunted by the authorities, we work in secret. You will never find us. But victim or perpetrator, if your number's up, we'll find you. The engineers Corwin had reassemble the machine after we shipped? There've been accidents, disappearances. I think the government may be killing them. Alicia isn't going to have me bumped off. I knew you would come, my friend. Victims of the ferry bombing include Nathan Ingram, CEO of IFT. Did you know? - Hello? - Alicia Corwin? - You are a murderer, a traitor. - Who is this? The actions of you and your associates have not gone unnoticed. Because of you, Nathan Ingram is dead. Consider this a warning. Code 703412. Office of Special Counsel, please. I'm sorry, Special Counsel is unavailable. No, you get him on the phone right now. I've just been threatened. Someone knows. We'll look into it. He was my best friend, and in an instant, he was simply .gone. I've struggled with my injury every day since then. I fear I may never regain the use of my arm. I'm sorry, Dr. Edwards. This was probably a bad idea. It's okay, Harold. You don't have to say more than you're comfortable with. But, uh you know the way you talk about your accident the loss of your friend, the pain. It seems as though you've carried this grief for some time. Everyone grieves in different ways. Hey, Glasses. Tell him about all your nutball friends. Maybe he can give you guys a group-therapy discount. I think, by now, you count as one of Harold's nutball friends, Lionel. With you people, there's no other kind. Shane Edwards. Shrink for victims of violent crimes. Big-time psychiatrist, once upon a time. - Then he lost his wife. - Eight years ago. Lucy. She was murdered by a psycho delivery guy. Shane founded his non-profit soon after. - You live alone? - No. Well, yes, technically. I have a dog. - Is the dog from your wife? - No, we never My fiance didn't have any pets. How do you know? That there was someone else in your life? Just a hunch. We broke it off, and That's really all I have to say about that. I understand. But I want you to know I've been in that seat I'm no stranger to what you're feeling. Why don't we call it? Talk more next time. Sound good? - Is that your wife? - Yeah. Yeah, that's Lucy. Like I said, I've been there before. She died eight years ago. Oh, I'm so terribly sorry, Dr. Edwards. You know, even when your world stops the world around you keeps moving forward and you will too. - Take care, Harold. - Thanks. I still have dreams sometimes where I'm walking. And then I wake up. - How does that make you feel? - Trapped. Helpless. Every morning, that first moment when I wake up and I realize I can't feel my legs I'm forced to relive it. Seeing Barton behind the wheel, high off his ass and then he hits me His lawyers got him out of rehab early because I saw a picture of him partying. He's posting all these stupid status updates promoting his new club. It's not fair. That he does this to me, and he gets to go out and live his life. - Can I punch this guy in the face? - Get in line. You have every reason to be angry, Angela, but you have to let it go. You can't change the past and people like that, they don't walk free forever. Karma has a way of finding them. Edwards' job involves dredging up a lot of details about violent crimes. Maybe he dug up something he wasn't supposed to? You got this one, Lionel? I got a therapy session of my own to get to. Yeah, give Red my regards. There seems to be a little bit of darkness about you today, detective. I met a guy this morning who lost someone. Changed his life. Just brings up bad memories. And how do you handle loss? You don't wanna go there. You're retreating inward again, John. What was that you said about new habits? Developing new habits isn't as easy as it sounds. How was your session with Dr. Campbell? Doctor-patient confidentiality, Finch. Fair enough. Any luck with Edwards' apartment? I must say, I'm getting rather good at this breaking-and-entering business. Although, I don't quite understand the purpose of the carnitas. Oh, it's just an old spy trick for neutralizing security systems. Security system? - Knock, knock. - Oh, hey, Becca. We got some of your mail again. Someone should probably say something to the mailman. Yeah, he gets confused because we look so much alike. Heh. Heh. Good point. Where's Hector today? He only does Tuesdays and Thursdays. Hector. That's very funny, Mr. Reese. Uh, my co-workers and I are gonna go check out that new bar up the street. And I We were wondering if maybe you would like to come along? Thanks, but I, uh, got a prior commitment. Yeah, of course, sure. No problem. I figured I'd just ask. Say hi to Hector for me. Will do. All right, Edwards is headed for the gym. Find anything in his apartment? Edwards' wife's belongings are everywhere. But she died eight years ago. Perhaps he isn't taking his own advice about moving on. Finch, I think we may have a problem. Edwards just planted a gun in someone's gym locker. And now he's leaving the gym without working out. Okay. He just went into a bank. Edwards is following a very deliberate schedule. - He's setting up pieces. - You think he's going to rob the bank? He's making his move, Finch. Or not. Something else is going on. He's using a code to go in a service entrance. Might be messing with the electrical system, security cams. What's he doing now? He's making a call from a burner phone. Clyde Barton. - Is this the account holder at After Hours? CLYDE: Yeah. This is Brian Humphries, Fisher Savings and Loan. The government made an inquiry into your account - and froze it. - Are you kidding me? My accountant said everything was in order. No need to raise your voice. This is standard. Come to our branch on Montague, we can get this straightened out. You bet your ass we will. I'll be there. Finch, you got a line on After Hours Management? When it comes to breaking, entering and hacking I can only do two at a time. - Finch, that guy Edwards was talking to? - Clyde Barton? That club owner who put Edwards' patient in a wheelchair. - How'd you know? - Edwards seems to have done extensive research on Clyde Barton. And he's been researching this bank for weeks. - Hello, Fisher Savings. - Hi, is this Brian Humphries? - Yeah. - Listen carefully. My associate is about to rob your bank. Now, if you cooperate fully without alerting the authorities no one will get hurt, including you. My friend's a big guy wearing sweats. When he comes in, he'll look for you. Give him your keys and your key card. Don't do anything stupid. Okay, Finch, this makes no sense. I'm going in. I need to see Brian Humphries now. - Do you see my friend? - Yeah. Please remain calm. I'll get you what you need. What are you talking about? Look, we don't want any trouble. - Help! This guy is trying to rob us! - Stop right there. I'm not trying to Unh! Get out of here. Guy's got a gun! Get your face to the ground! You're not gonna believe this, Finch. Edwards just framed this guy for robbery. That's not all. It doesn't appear that this is the first time Edwards has framed someone like this. I believe our new number may be something of a vigilante. Then who's his next target? So Edwards is a vigilante, huh? He's put a total of seven people in prison. All of them aggressors who had harmed his patients. How far back do these go, Finch? Back to when he started his victim advocacy non-profit in honor of his wife, Lucy. Her killer, Wyatt Morris a delivery man who got a little bit too friendly with Lucy while making deliveries and made her uncomfortable. She was concerned he might be unstable so they filed a complaint with his employer. The day before the murder Morris attempted a delivery at the house, but Lucy didn't answer the door. He returned the following day. She came to the door and signed for the package. That evening, according to Edwards' testimony he saw Morris leaving as he arrived home from work. Moments later, he discovered his wife bludgeoned to death. Where is Morris now? In prison, serving Manslaughter? Why not murder? The evidence was circumstantial. There was no witness to the murder, otherwise, he'd be serving a life sentence. Edwards is punishing people who deserve it and making sure no innocent people get hurt in the process. We should hire him, Finch. Take the week off. Need I remind you, Mr. Reese, his number has come up. Which means that his next target may escalate beyond any simple crime. Or one of his previous targets is coming back for revenge. - How you doing, boy? - It appears Edwards is arriving home now. He's putting tape on his tuxedo. Either he doesn't trust Hugo Boss lapels to stay in place or he's planning to start his next frame at tonight's gala. Edwards is making a presentation tonight about his non-profit. It appears to be an elite crowd. Admission will require a rather large donation from our already depleted funds. Save your money, professor. I might have an easier way to get in. Thanks for getting me in, doc. You're the one doing me a favor. The N.Y.P.D. has a table at this gala every year. I'm always looking for people willing to come represent the precinct. Thank you. I think the tuxes keep them away. It's good to see your empathetic side, John. It shows real progress. Well, I'm glad I could join you. Urn, you look stunning, by the way. And it's good to see this other side of you too. I feel like a waiter in this thing. I don't think I've worn a cummerbund since, uh, senior prom. You're welcome, detective. Where is Edwards now? Don't worry, Finch. We've got eyes on him. Hi, everyone. Thank you all for coming. I hope you're all at least getting a drink out of your tax write-offs tonight. For those of you who don't know who I am, my name's Shane Edwards. And this is my wife, Lucy. Lucy was a photographer. We met in a garden quiet little spot with a fountain when I absent-mindedly traipsed through her perfectly timed shot, ruining hours of prep work. But instead of getting mad, she just started laughing. Said there was no use getting upset now, she'd just have to make do with an avant-garde golden-hour photo of a blurry foot. Mr. Reese, we may have trouble. Someone's sneaking in the service entrance. Oh, my. It's Morris. The man convicted of murdering Edwards' wife. I thought he was in prison. Released yesterday on parole. The system wasn't updated due to an administrative delay. What the hell's he doing here? A couple of years later, I proposed to her right there in the garden after we carved our initials on a bench. After her passing I couldn't bring myself to visit that place anymore I couldn't even think about it until I went into therapy. And it was therapy that made me whole again. Moving on is not about forgetting or ignoring Morris is heading straight for Edwards. Excuse me a moment.  to incorporate into your new life - So, doc, I keep having this dream - Hmm. And that's why victim advocacy is so important no matter what form that advocacy takes. So I'm here tonight to ask you to help me continue in my practice. Thank you very much. Thanks for coming. Been a while, doc. You? The hell are you doing here? - Seven years - Come on. - What are they saying? - Too much commotion. - Seven years - Hey! - Mr. Reese, what's happening? - Morris just threatened Edwards. - Let's go. - Seven years! Edwards is on the move, Finch. Something's wrong, Finch. The battery in Edwards' car's drained. It's wired to blow! Get down! All right, doc. Why does Morris want you dead? Hello? It's you, isn't it? I suppose you're trying to tell me not to do this. But I haven't given you a voice so you have nothing to say. - News on Morris? - Our guys are looking for him. Have you had any contact with Morris since the trial? No. I heard he was getting out of prison soon, but I never imagined he'd come after me. Think he tried to kill you because you put him away? Killing my wife is what put him away. I'm sorry, I'm a little on edge. Last time I was in a room like this was the night she died. Worst night of my life. It was snowing. That kind of relentless snow where you forget there was ever a world without it. I remember calling my wife on the way home. She didn't answer, she was always bad about answering the phone. I saw this delivery truck double-parked outside our building. Just as I was going in, the engine revved, and the truck took off. When I got up to our floor the door was hanging open. And I ran inside and saw this package lying on the floor, this small brown package wrapped in tape, lying in a In a pool When they found Morris, he denied he had anything to do with Lucy's death. You need anything else from me? I got appointments starting in about four hours, I'd like to get a bit of shut-eye. Morris is out there somewhere. This guy's taken years of my life. He's not getting any more of my time. We'll find him. Why would Morris, a guy who was just paroled, put a bomb in Edwards' car and risk everything by confronting him in front of a crowd? Criminals do stupid incriminating stuff all the time. You don't put a bomb in a car because you're mentally stable. Look, before delivering packages, Morris worked construction. - Demolitions. - Guy knows how to build a bomb. Perhaps I can add some information. I've spotted new activity on an old e-mail account Morris had before he went to prison. A cryptic exchange with an anonymized account. It says, "Roscoe has agreed to meet. In the can. Eleven a.m. tomorrow. Kent Avenue and North 9th Street." So Morris is about to meet with a man named Roscoe? Roscoe is an old nickname for a handgun. Morris is trying to acquire a weapon. I'll head to the address. I'd like to have a word with him. Hey, Glasses, I just heard back from the bomb squad. - What have you got, detective? - Real amateur hour. Another inch to the left, the igniter would have been too far to set it off. Guy like Morris with experience in explosives should know better. Interesting. Thank you, detective. Any luck finding Roscoe? Well, the gun was already here. No sign of Morris yet. And "in the can" meant in the trash outside a public restroom. Remind me to never illegally purchase a firearm. While you're waiting, here's something rather odd. Do you remember when Edwards told you about seeing Morris' truck the night his wife died? - Yeah. - Well, that story he told you matches the story he told in court and the story he told the cops. Of course he would remember every detail. - His wife was murdered. - It's not just the details, Mr. Reese. Verbatim. "That kind of relentless snow that makes you forget there was ever a world without it." It's as if Edwards memorized that speech. But why would he do that? I've been going through the cell company's GPS records for Edwards' phone. He wasn't coming home when his wife was killed. He didn't arrive until several hours later, which means he couldn't have seen his wife's killer leaving the scene. He lied. He didn't just lie, Finch. - Edwards is the one who bought the gun. - He bought a gun under Morris' name? Mr. Reese, it's another frame job. Seven years ago, Edwards perjured himself to make sure the man he believed killed his wife would go to prison. And now Morris is out early. And only seven years for his wife's murder. I'd be angry too. So now Edwards is planning to put him away for good. Edwards is heading back home now. He's been pretty careful about not touching that gun. Edwards means to kill Morris with that gun and make it look like self-defense. Get this. Right after Morris was released he got a text message from his brother saying Edwards would be at that gala Edwards must have spoofed the text to make sure Morris would show. Then he blew up his car to make it look like Morris tried to kill him. Whatever Edwards' plan is, it could end in someone's death, including his own. - We have to stop him. - Stop him? We should give him a medal. Morris killed Edwards' wife and he's walking the streets. Edwards lied in his testimony. Have you considered that Morris might be innocent? The man was obsessed. He didn't have a solid alibi. No other suspect to speak of. Precisely. All the evidence against him was purely circumstantial. Morris has always maintained his innocence. It could be that he's telling the truth. And we may never know what really happened. Guys, we don't even know what's happening now. Edwards just popped open a round and poured out the gunpowder. I'm betting things won't go well for Morris when Edwards plants gunshot residue on him. If Edwards has figured out how to put this guy away, he should go for it. One less killer walking the streets. Oh, he's figured it out. The tape on his lapels picked up Morris' fingerprints. So now Edwards is holding a gun with Morris' prints. It seems fairly obvious he intends to use it on someone. We cannot sanction murder. We don't know if it's murder. None of Edwards' frames have ended in death before. Mr. Reese, we wouldn't focus on him if something bad wasn't about to happen. I'm saying he doesn't look like a killer to me. He looks like a man who's lost. - Hey. Sorry, I'm a little early. - Hey. No problem. Uh Sounds like Hector's looking forward to spending time with you. I'll go get him. Got someone here for you. - Here she is. Here she is. - Hey. Hi. Yeah. You sure you don't mind? - I'm happy to watch him as long as you need. - Thanks. Yeah, something came up I gotta take care of tonight, so Everything okay? Yeah. I think it will be, yeah. - Thanks again for watching him. - Of course. Bye. Okay, Finch. Edwards is clearing out. Whatever his plan is, it's gonna happen soon. I got a lead on our killer. When Morris was in prison, his brother never missed a visit. If Morris isn't at his brother's, he knows where he is. Edwards is thinking the same thing. Looks like he's heading for the brother's apartment. Okay, Finch. Edwards just broke in. Mr. Reese? What's he doing? Making it look like Morris is following him. Where's Edwards? Here. Edwards has been planning this for years. He can't move on. He needs closure. Vengeance will not bring closure. You should know that by now. It didn't for Carter, it didn't for Shaw. And it won't bring Edwards any peace if he's targeted the wrong man. Finch, the law doesn't always work. Edwards is correcting an injustice. If we deny him this, it will destroy him. Don't make the mistake of assuming you're the only person that's been down this path. So tell me, Finch. Where did that path take you? Gotta find the red queen. The red queen. You gotta pay to play, pay to play, folks. Who wants to step up, take a chance? - Edwards is gone. - Did he get away, or did you? He's been doing frame jobs for a while. He's good at covering his tracks. He's left his phone at home, so there's no way for us to track him. We have to find him before it's too late. I haven't been able to find Edwards, but I've located Morris' cell phone signal. It's an older model that doesn't have GPS. Wait, this could be something. - Fusco. - Detective. Have you located Morris' brother? It appears that he just sent Morris a text message although I'll wager it's Edwards spoofing the text to lure him out. Yeah, I'd say it's a safe bet. Sid broke his cell phone while we were having a chat. How exactly did? Does he know where Morris is? No. But it didn't stop the lowlife from taking a swing at me. It says to meet at the conservatory at the New York Botanical Gardens. That's across town. - I'm close. - Could be dangerous, Finch. You should've stopped Edwards while you had the chance. Hello? Sid? You here? I've been waiting seven years for this. I have received direct threats on my personal cell phone. Someone is coming after us. You tell your boss to call me back immediately. Hello, Alicia. I'm sorry it's come to this. I'm aware of your relentless pursuit and subsequent elimination of the engineers involved in Northern Lights. Did you think that while you were watching others, no one would be watching you? I'd be careful if I were you. An improvised explosive device is attached to the bottom of your car. Any sudden movement could set it off. As a member of the black-ops intelligence community I'm sure you're familiar with the damage such a device can do. You have to understand. Nathan, he was a dear friend. I didn't know anything about his murder. Do you even believe yourself? You work in intelligence. How can you not know? No The second it happened, I knew it. But I didn't know they were gonna do it, I had no idea. You're a trained liar. How will I ever know if you're telling the truth? You won't. But I am. Everything we did was to make the world a safer place. But we strayed from the path. I admit it. I have so many regrets, but it's grown so big and we're so so small. I don't know who you are or how you know all this but maybe you're right. Maybe Nathan's death, it is my fault. I saw the signs. I ignored them. Maybe I deserve this. Dump that on your hands. - Gunpowder? - Do it. Dr. Edwards. No, no, no, Harold, what are you doing here? I may not have been completely honest with you in our session. But you were right. We've both been down the same road. But if there's one thing I've learned it's that revenge will never bring you closure. - Hey, you gotta help me. - Shut up! - I'm not a murderer. - You're a liar. I dropped the package off to her in the morning and that's all I did. I didn't like leaving packages at people's doorsteps during the holidays. A lot of thieves. A lot of bad people out there. I made sure she signed for it and then I left. And I never came back that night. You really expect me to believe that's why you kept going back? I know you killed her. This is where you met. Where you proposed. Why desecrate her memory by committing murder in the place where you were happiest? Who said anything about murder? When they search his apartment they'll find evidence he's been plotting to kill me. With the gunshot residue on his hands, there won't be any doubt he pulled the trigger. They'll put you away for the rest of your life. And there won't be anything you can do to stop it. After I pull the trigger, tell them he shot me. Do that, and then everything will fall into place. Harold? Whoever you are, I'm begging you, let me have this. Harold. - Move away. - John, don't shoot. Shane? Listen to me. I watched someone close to me die before my eyes. Like you, I thought I needed to make sure that everyone responsible for that murder paid with their life. And I almost did it. I had my target, I had my finger on the trigger. But I realized that as certain as I was that these people deserved retribution that life was infinitely more complicated than that. You may never know what happened on that day. But if you do this, if you condemn his life there will be no doubt what you did to him. Even when your world stops the world around you keeps moving forward and you will too. But if you die here that bright, beautiful, lively woman that fell in love with you here will forever die with you. I know you don't want that. You're even less chatty than usual. Just had a long night. Wanna talk about it? Okay. How about we discuss payback instead? I got you into the gala now you give me something real about yourself, no more shutting me out. Tell me something you're not so proud of. Starting with how you deal with grief. There was a woman once. She meant everything to me. And I kept her at arm's length. I went away for a long time. Then I learned she died. So, what happened? Talk to me, John. If you ever wanna be able to move on you have to grieve. I'm not sure I know how to do that. - There he is. - Aw. He missed you. Hey, little boy. - Thanks for looking after him. - Anytime. Did you get everything taken care of? I'm still working on it. Think it's gonna be okay. I'm glad to hear it. Maybe we can walk him together sometime. Maybe. You wanna go? It looks like Edwards might finally be starting to move on. What about Morris? Did he kill Edwards' wife or not? That's a question between him and his maker. Perhaps we should follow our own advice and let him go. That's not good enough. Your machine's gotta know the truth. It may, and the truth will likely remain with it. As frustrating as it might seem some questions may never be answered. But what I do know is this: if Morris is a killer and tries to kill again we'll be there. Come on. Walk.
We are being watched. The government has a secret system. A machine that spies on you every hour of every day. I designed the machine to detect acts of terror, but it sees everything. Violent crimes involving ordinary people. The government considers these people irrelevant. We don't. Hunted by the authorities, we work in secret. You will never find us. But victim or perpetrator, if your number's up, we'll find you. Professor Whistler. Beth Bridges, hello. I've been eager to meet you. You're sure you installed it in her computer? Quite sure. Elizabeth Bridges. Samaritan is becoming very interested in her algorithms. We're eager to meet you. See you in a month. Twenty thousand buy-in. Welcome to the game. - Let me get you a drink. - Thanks a lot. I raise you 50,000. - Hi, Ray. - Welcome. We raise 60. - I call. - Cards. Full house. I confess to some relief, Mr. Reese. I was starting to wonder what we'd do if you lost all our money. Relax, Finch. Trust the poker face. Congratulations, sir. I was hoping you'd beat Toby. The girls tell me he's a terrible tipper. Meet our new number. Francesca "Frankie" Wells, born and raised in Hammerton, Florida. Population 8000. She arrived four days ago and tonight is her first turn as hostess at your semi-illicit card game. - And her new boss? - Ray No last name, man of mystery. Oh, jeez, I am so, so sorry. Um - You are so fired. - Let me get you a shirt. - Stop. Relax. - I really need this job. Sorry. Come on, come on. Let's go. He's got a temper. - Please, please. - It's okay, everybody. We just found our perp. We're taking a ride, Ray. Frankie, you okay? Back off. He's mine. Let him go. - Enough. - Drop it, drop the gun. Oh, thank God. Pervert. Easy, now. I'm a cop. I'm just reaching for my badge. Damn. She stole my badge. I've missed you, Harold. Ms. Groves. Long time no see. Is something going on? - You seem distracted. - Not distracted. Departing. Going to have coffee with someone that Professor Whistler met at a conference in Hong Kong months ago. A female someone, judging by the color in your cheeks. Good day, Ms. Groves. Thank you. Mr. Flint, this is good news. When will you begin the field test on your system? As soon as you send us a completed algorithm. My employer is very pleased with your progress, Ms. Bridges. The next tranche of funds has been wired to your account. Great. Thank you so much. Nine-fourteen, Harold. You're a minute early. Just in time to hear some good news? I was just talking to my angel investor about my situational analysis project. Your so-called predictive algorithm, yes. We are finally going live. As soon as I give them this drive they're going to install my algorithm in their system. In the system? Congratulations. When are you gonna be sending it to them? Oh, day after tomorrow. I still have a little final tinkering to do. Have dinner with me tomorrow night. We'll celebrate. Oh, I'd like that. I promise to tease you about precautionary principles all night. Iris. Oh, Dr. Campbell. Detective Riley, hi. Hi. Are you all right? - Sure, you? - Yes. Well, I just I've been wanting to talk to you, actually, about our therapy sessions. Sure. John, I have to end them. I'm referring you to Doug Trujillo. He's terrific. Heh. You're firing me as a patient? Look, does this have to do with our last session? I told you about some violence in my past. Maybe you're just upset. The reasons for this are not important. What is important is that you continue the work we've started. Iris. - What aren't you telling me? - Nothing. I'm sorry, detective. - Ouch. How many guys? - Oh, it was just the one woman. Also, she stole my badge. Oh, that's real bad, partner. They suspend you for that kind of thing. So let's go find her. Frankie Wells. Which may be an alias. All the information Finch and I thought we had turns out it's all been faked. Pretty good fake to fool Glasses. One bright spot, though. She did drop her phone. This is her boss. Guy goes by Ray. She tried to kidnap him. Good surveillance job. Yeah, and these photos go back days before Frankie started working for Ray. She's hunting him. Skilled at surveillance. And she fights like a pro. Could be he's at one of these places. Six addresses, couple of bodegas, a bar. All sketchy spots. Where someone with a badge can get all the cooperation she needs. Let's reach out and see if Detective Riley has happened by any of them. John. Did you text me a new number earlier? Yeah, can you handle that? - I'm a little busy right now. - This is very important. The new number, when did it come in exactly? About 9:15 this morning. Why? - Finch? - I'll call you later, Mr. Reese. Detective Riley. I'm looking for a girl called Athena. She's with a guy named Ray. And I'm looking for my badge. How the hell did you find me? Crap. Unh. Hey. - You're under arrest. - Arrest? Idiot. I'm after Ray Pratt. That sleazeball from the poker game. He skipped bail in Florida on conspiracy charges. - And I'm taking him back. - You're a bounty hunter. Yeah, what did you think? Why would Ray Pratt come here? Because thanks to you, he knows I'm onto him. He'll be trying to leave the country, and for that he needs falsified papers. Good ones. The list on your phone? Six of the best places to get counterfeit IDs. I hear the real expert is the one who works out of this bar. Her online handle is Athena. - She's gotta be around here somewhere. - You two need a room? Shut up. Ray. Ray! Ray, get in. Athena? Hey, Riley. You know her? Yeah, and her name's not Athena. Come on. So Athena's real name is Harper Rose? Not exactly. Harper's not really her name. We just call her that. She, uh, likes the sound of it. Likes the sound of it? Are you impaired, Johnny? I like you, but you're the one who needs to answer questions. And prove who you are. Bail contract's in my pocket. Ray Pratt, skipped bail three months ago. Charged with conspiracy to commit various crimes with one Carlton I. Worthy. Worthy's a casino mogul who's into gambling and prostitution. Ray Pratt ran all of his operations, but Pratt got caught. He's due in Broward County Court on Wednesday. Or his bail is forfeit and I owe the court a million bucks. I don't have a million bucks, gentlemen. I'll lose everything. I'll go broke. Now I'm gonna have to start all over and track down this Harper chick. I'll see you later. Hold up. I'm not letting you go out there alone. We have reason to believe that your life's in danger. Danger? Oh, jeez, whatever will I do? - I'll put you in a cell. - Heh. You'll try. I am the best hope you have of finding Harper. Usually you're the one sneaking up on me. I was surprised you called, Harry. What's up? Hmm. Elizabeth Bridges. - She looks nice. - My breakfast companion. Her number came up at the moment I sat down with her. You triggered it somehow. Ruh-roh. Think it's possible that the threat could be Samaritan? No, because if it were, you'd be dead. I can't protect Ms. Bridges alone. I need your help. Anything you're not telling me? Of course not, so will you assist me or not? You know I'd do anything for you, Harold. Anything- She goes by Harper Rose or maybe Fiona Dubois. Anything? No recent arrests. Oh, thanks anyway. Yeah, I owe you one. Detective. I didn't see you there. John. Who's the ginger? Nobody. And no luck with Harper. Sorry. - Nobody's seen her. - How'd you meet? She stole medical-marijuana cash. Pissed off one of the cartels. - So Harper's got game. - Harper, Athena, Fiona. She's got dozens of identities. A different scam for every name. It's tough to chase someone like that. I need data. What else do you know about her? We've come a long way since our first field trip together, haven't we? When you kidnapped me and killed two people? A bit. Even then I was in awe of you. The man who created God. - I never thought - What? We'd be friends. Now I can't imagine what the world would be like without you. What I would be like. - I'll go bluejack her phone. - No, no, too risky. I've learned Ms. Bridges' research has attracted the interest of other parties. Like Greer. Flag on the play, Harold. She's in business with Samaritan's sock puppet? An unfortunate coincidence. That you neglected to mention. You yourself said our foe was irrelevant here. - Yes? - Hi, Harold. Tomorrow how do you feel about trying this new sushi place in the village? That's That'll be fine, Beth. Pick you up at 8. Bye. You like her. What are you doing here? Are you following me? Liz, I just want to talk. We may have found our threat, Harold. - You should go. - Absolutely not. What if she sees you? I'll get close to listen and report back. Don't worry, I've got this. Hey, hey. Anybody seen Isabel? Heard she has bottle service with a dozen hedge-fund dweebs. - Opportunity knocks. - Hi, Fiona. Isabel couldn't make it after all. Out. Good night. Hello, Harper. - Where's Ray Pratt? - No idea. I told him to hide out and not tell me where. Until you have his ID ready? The high-end fakes take time. Gotta pay off DMV guys. Maybe even someone at the post office regarding passports. When Ray gets his ID, he'll flee the country for good. Little girl, believe me when I say I won't let that happen. It's just business. Why don't you guys chase that Carlton Worthy dude? It sounds more challenging. Harper, you will tell us where Ray Pratt is, or I will arrest you. For what? I saw a crazy bitch chasing Ray, so I saved him. - Do you wanna go, really? - Stop. We're leaving. Say good night, Frankie. - What the hell? - Trust me. And then Beth turned in for the night. And that man? He left right after you did. I took photos. Lionel promised to help run them tomorrow. I do love surveillance. Oh, dear. Harold. What's going on? Harper has to get rid of the fake papers. Eventually. When she does, we'll be following. You should've let me kick her narrow ass. God, I hate pantyhose. Thanks. I bluejacked two of Harper's phones. - I couldn't pair the third, though. - Because I bluejacked her first. Hey, she's making a call. Dash, it's Athena. Have the papers ready. Heading to your location. Me and my client. Harper has Ray with her. She lied. Go figure. There she is. Go, go, go. Where the hell is she going? Just stay back and be patient. Why? We know Ray's there. Watch and learn, Johnny. Look out. - Stay here. - Yeah, right. - Don't shoot. - Pratt's not here. She told me I could have the car. Not bad. I know. John! Get off me! Ms. Wells. I'm Mr. Worthy. - How are you doing? - Unh. Oh, good. You're up. It's a shame Ray wasn't in that car, Ms. Wells. Here I was following you all day, and you let that girl, Athena, trick you. My bad. Frankie. Where's my boy REY? How the hell should I know? You want him so bad you'd risk kidnapping a cop? Ray stole from me. One hundred thousand dollars. Can you imagine? There's just no integrity anymore. And I don't wanna live in a world with no integrity, do you, Ms. Wells? You should let her go. Now. Someone like you always has another lead. Something in your back pocket. Ray Pratt, where is he? - I don't know, Mr. Worthy, I swear. - You're lying to me, Ms. Wells. You've got 10 minutes to change her mind, detective. Then these gentlemen will kill you both. Your office break-in, Harold. Tell me the truth. I worry that the break-in may be related to a side project of mine. I knew that Samaritan would become interested in Beth's research. So in Hong Kong I gained access to her computer. And installed something. I built a narrow Al. One that could provide a back door into our enemy itself. Transmitting data from the inside. You used her algorithm as a Trojan horse hoping it would eventually be installed in Samaritan. Ms. Groves, I was right. It will be installed, mere days from now. I've left the Trojan horse dormant to avoid discovery. This activates it. I need to get it close to her laptop, which I'll do tonight at dinner. - Harold. - It can only transmit a tiny amount of data, maybe a few megs. But it's data from Samaritan's core heuristics. It's DNA. You may be able to find a way to cripple it. The program can only be used once. Our enemy will trace the data stream and try to destroy whoever is wielding the device but it could make a difference in this war. Dangerous and bold. That's my Harry. But breaking into my office how was that related? - Maybe it's not. - What's your problem? Our marriage is over. I don't wanna see you again. Go back to London and stop embarrassing yourself. See why you like her, Harry. This is all good news. Clearly the himbo trashed your office. A jealous ex? It's classic. Beth's number came up because he was watching the two of you have coffee. Perhaps you're right. JFK Airport. An extra 50 if you break every speed limit. Well, my work here is done. - I should go. ls there a problem? Can I help? You're a good friend, Harold. But this one I have to do alone. Come on, Lee, go get the hacksaw. You might wanna work faster. Blade's too big. Deke, you let me down. You name your knives? No, Deacon's my big brother. He gave it to me. He in Florida? He's dead. A mugging gone wrong. Help me find a paper clip or something, will you? Growing up, we were no-shoes poor. Kids made fun of us. This kid Joe used to beat me up every damn day until Deacon broke Joe's arm. He said, "Some people need to be made truly sorry." That's why I like skip tracing. To catch people who did wrong and make them truly sorry. - Ah. Got it. - They're coming. - Not bad. - I know. What is it with you and me and handcuffs? Aw. Frankie. Come on. Worthy was right. I am a liar. And I have to catch Ray myself. I'm sorry, John. This is Beth's room, Harold. Why are you here? I was concerned, Ms. Groves. You seemed Why are you here? I just wanted to make sure we were right about her ex-husband being the threat. You should probably hightail it. Beth could come back any minute. Really, Harold. You should go. Ms. Groves. Root. The threat to Beth's life is it you? Yes, Harold. I'm afraid I'm gonna have to kill her. We have to find Ray. That's where Frankie is. I got an idea on that. Before Ray moved to Florida, he worked for his uncle here. A dry-dock business down the shore. Seasonal business, so it's closed now. Perfect place to hide. That's Frankie's lead. We need to move quick. The cops in Florida have Pratt under conspiracy racket. But I think he's a killer. I was looking into Worthy's hotels down in Florida. Last year, a couple months before Ray got arrested this accountant got his throat slashed. Brutal work. Cops said it was a mugging. No one connected Ray to the death. - But you did. - Ray was his boss. Argued with him. Next day, the accountant ended up in an alley with his throat slashed. Frankie could be in trouble. And Harper. Hello? Hey, Pratt! Hey, gorgeous. You got them? DL, passport, birth certificate and ticket to Brazil. You leave at 5. Come on up. You followed me to coffee with Beth. It was you watching us. Not her ex-husband. - And my office? - Trashed it. I was looking for that activation device. So you knew before I told you what my plan was. I knew enough. You told me the rest. Only you would have the audacity, Harold. Sneaking past Zeus to steal fire. But inevitably, you'll be discovered. Samaritan will link Harold with Beth, and minutes later it will murder you. All because you'll see her tonight and activate that program. She's gonna get you killed, Harold. That's why she has to die. Please, you mustn't do this, Ms. Groves. It's a neurotoxin. Untraceable. I promise I'll make sure her death is painless. Yeah, Fusco? No luck finding Harper. And I haven't found anything about the death of Deacon Sanders. Hang on. Deacon. The accountant's name is Deacon? A stupid name, right? Who died in an apparent mugging. Damn it, none of this is what we thought. Ray isn't the perp here. Fusco. I need you to look into Deacon Sanders' family in Florida. And do it now. Nice doing business. That'll be 50 large. I got something better. My insurance against Worthy, every illegal transaction for the past two years. Names and numbers. I'm cash and carry, babe. Take it or leave it. Hi, Ray. You should go. Watch your back, Barbie. Ray's a sociopath. I know. Say goodbye, Ray. Harold, this is chloral hydrate. I'm gonna put you out. Making you watch would be cruel. Don't do this. Please. Ms. Groves. Beth should be back by now. I bet she stopped at Veniero's. - She loves their cannoli. - Why kill her? Why didn't you just tell me not to see her? I knew you'd never stop. This plan of yours means too much to you. No, it's It's better to let Beth die of a heart attack. Enough. This won't hurt, I promise. My plan does mean too much, too much to kill her. If you do, my program will fail. This could be a real weapon. It's worth risking my life. No. - You're too important. - My value to the machine is irrelevant. You're too important to me. The machine didn't tell you to do this. She told me not to. I thought I could sacrifice everyone, I really did. Win some, lose some, right? It's for a good cause, but But it turns out I can't lose you, Harold. Not you and Shaw. So you will kill this woman to save my life? It will all be over very soon. No, Harold! There is no need to kill her if I'm already dead. I'm Frankie Wells, your new bail bondsman. I have a license to hunt you down. Contract says I have to get you to court by Wednesday. It doesn't say I have to get you there alive. You shot at me, I fired back in self-defense. And why is it you want me dead? Because you killed her brother. Deacon Sanders. The accountant at Worthy's hotel in Florida. Hi, Johnny. Hi, Frankie. After you got arrested, I realized the mugging had to be you. Deacon found out that you were stealing from Worthy. Idiot came at me with questions about the books said he wanted to do the right thing. I was putting together a murder case to take to the cops when you skipped. That when I realized I had to handle this myself. Ordinarily I'd ask if you were sorry now. Truly sorry that you killed my brother. But I know better now. A sociopath can't be sorry. So I guess I'm gonna have to be sorry for both of us. Frankie. No, no. Harper. All right. Ain't this a hell of a thing? - Ray, let her go. - You should listen to him. What the hell? Ray! I told you there'd be a reckoning. You disappoint me, Harold. - How long do I have? - Hi. My friend needs to get to the hospital in 11 minutes or he's dead. I won't go. When they come, I won't go. And legally, they can't force me. Worthy doesn't care if the girl gets caught in the cross fire. Hey. Ah-ah. Okay, I got this. You wanna get out of here alive, Pratt? Careful. Don't shoot, don't shoot. Everybody ready to make a deal? - A deal? - That's right. You want Ray dead. But what you need is your freedom. This is Ray's insurance policy against you. Puts you in prison for 10 years. What if I give it to you and you get to walk out of here? I'm listening. You wanna go to Brazil, but believe me, that ain't happening. What's happening in the next 10 minutes is you'll either be dead or under arrest. You get to pick. And, Detective Riley, you wanna arrest Pratt and Worthy. But you are gonna take Ray alone and let Worthy go. He hasn't killed anybody. That we know of. Worthy can walk out of here. So just one more piece of the deal. Okay, Frankie. You want Pratt dead, and you've got good reason. But he's gonna go to jail for a long, long time. So no killing. - No. - Yes. To save the girl's life. I know it's not what you want but it's what I'm asking of you. All right. Nice doing business with you. I'm not going to jail. I said don't kill him. Harold, stop this now. If I'm dead, you won't kill her. There won't be a need. Do you really care that much about this woman? If she dies, it's my fault. And I will not be responsible for one more friend's death. Shaw's not your fault. Even if she does turn up dead, it's not your fault. I asked her to help us that day. I did, Harold. I suppose we're both just trying to save one more friend from dying. You win. I won't kill her. I give you my word, Harold. Beth will live. Please. Just please believe me. All right, I believe you Root. Okay, then. Come on. Have a good day. Give it. The real thumb drive. There's no way you'd strike a bargain where you weren't the big winner. It's mine. Fair and square. It's worth some serious coin. How'd you get in touch with Ray in the first place? Actually, I thought I had you and Harold to thank. Right after the thing with the cartel, this guy reached out to me. Highly encrypted texts, and every one a great opportunity. Real rich deals. I probably made Thornhill? That's the alias of an acquaintance of mine. Uh-huh. So you do know him? Well, actually, some say it's a her. Get out of here. Yes, sir. Hey, Harold. Call me. Harper's getting texts from the machine. Beth, I got your message canceling dinner and thought I'd come by. - May I come in for a moment? - Are you kidding? No. "To the editor of The Journal of the International Mathematical Society." It's a letter claiming I falsified data on a project I did five years ago. The e-mail contains electronic proof that it came from your university account. - A hacker could forge such proof. - Please. I know that we disagree about technology, Harold. But to do this just to discredit me, it's despicable. Was it all just a fake? Hong Kong everything? - No. Not everything. Goodbye, Harold. Good bye. N.Y.P.D. picked up Carlton Worthy and his men at the G.W. Bridge. I promised he could leave the building, not the state. You tell them, Crockett. I'm gonna miss you. So, John, you gonna lock me up too? Maybe next time. Because, you know, I got handcuffs. Call me when you're a free man. My office. Detective. John. You were right. I should've been honest with you about why I had to stop our sessions. I told myself it was for your protection. But really, I was just being a coward. So just tell me. John, hear me. It's not because of anything in your past. There's nothing you could tell me in a session that would make me run. - So you're not afraid of me? - Oh, I am. Very. I have feelings for you, John. - Oh. - Which is inappropriate. Wrong. Completely unethical. I can't have a relationship with even an ex-patient. It's so wrong. It's like a cop dating a fireman. - It's that bad. - Okay. I've tried to stop it. I could lose my job, for God's sakes. A job I love. And I tried, but I kept finding that every time I'm with you I just feel l Oh, to hell with it. Actually I'm pretty good at keeping secrets. It had to be, Harry. You hurt a good woman. Didn't kill her. And you're alive too. Despite your best efforts. - The activation device, give it to me. - Can't. I destroyed it. Then it was all for nothing. Months of planning, Hong Kong, Beth. The Trojan horse was important. It could've given us a chance. It's okay if we're not friends anymore. You being alive is enough. I don't wanna see you for a while. Of course. It was a brilliant plan, Harold. The Trojan horse. But it would've gotten Professor Whistler killed.
We are being watched. The government has a secret system. A machine that spies on you every hour of every day. I designed the machine to detect acts of terror, but it sees everything. Violent crimes involving ordinary people. The government considers these people irrelevant. We don't. Hunted by the authorities, we work in secret. You will never find us. But victim or perpetrator, if your number's up, we'll find you. Pick it up, Finch. It's about time. Is this really why I was summoned first thing in the morning? Beats a cup of coffee. Who knows? You might even enjoy it. While I appreciate the utility of a firearm, Mr. Reese I don't see the pleasure in firing lead projectiles at inanimate objects. This isn't pleasure, it's business. You've had some close calls recently. Think of it as a machine. You like machines, right, Finch? Or maybe a handgun is more your style. I won't be around forever. I just need to know you can protect yourself once I'm gone. When the time comes for me to pick up a firearm, all will truly be lost. Boss? Mr. Khan. Why haven't you picked up your phone, Sul? Sul, wake up. - Turn on the TV. - What're you? If you are just joining us, an update to our top story. - Officials have yet to release a statement - You've been hacked. even as hundreds of private documents have been made public. - What did they get? - Corporate accounts, financial records. Salary, bonuses, every e-mail you ever sent. How bad? The leak proves you were embezzling funds. - What? That's ridiculous. - The board's meeting in an hour. - They're moving to fire you. - Okay, call Mark. Tell him to stall. - What networks are covering this? - All of them. - Uh-huh. - Fox News, Huffington, The Journal. CNN already has a hashtag for it. TMZ just posted how much you lost in the stock-market flash crash. Wow. Internal Revenue Service. We need to talk to Suleiman Khan. What do we do? Buy me some time. I gotta get to this meeting. I gotta fix this. Got eyes on him, Finch. As do I. Our new number has become infamous overnight. Meet Sulaiman Khan. CEO of Castellum Security Incorporated a pioneer in computer anti-virus software. What started out in his garage has now grown to be the leading security software company in the entire world. And judging from his home, it's made him a few dollars. More like billions. Although, Mr. Khan's personal finances took a huge hit in the stock-market flash crash. He's lucky his company is still standing. Khan's anti-viral software comes pre-installed in 86 percent of the network devices now sold around the globe. Entire divisions within the government are using versions of his product which makes him a prime target for hackers. They all wanna take a shot at the sheriff. It'd be quite a feat to infiltrate the man who built the ultimate firewall. Explains why I haven't been able to bluejack him. It's extremely difficult to access him remotely. His security measures are rigorous and virtually unassailable. Only the paranoid survive. Right, Finch? It's not paranoia if they're really after you. Whoever got to him is very good. Just so we're not flying completely blind, I went ahead and bluejacked his assistant. I'll attempt to access everyone in his inner circle. You stay on the number. Oh, he's not going anywhere, Finch. His key no longer works. Hackers may have accessed his car and voided the smart key. They could just be getting warmed up. He's sure determined to get to his meeting. - He's about to do something rash. - I need to gather more info about this advanced persistent threat, see how he was doxxed. Can't you get Root on this? Sorry. Miss Groves and I are not on the best of terms. Better kiss and make up, Finch. We could use her on this one. How are you? Are you sure the item's intact? Please, it's custom-made with a built-in GPS tracker. I've got a guy. Could drop this from an airplane, not even a dent. Another mimosa, miss? You may wanna sit down. Thank you. Meeting's well underway. Time is running out if he plans to intervene. Hello? Finch, I can't get close enough to overhear his side of the conversation. Taken care of. While Mr. Khan may take extreme security measures, his wife does not. Linda, this is not a good time. I'm walking into a meeting. You disgust me. - You swore you deleted them. - Deleted what? The pictures from Cabo. Oh, no. Oh, my. - You gave me your word. - I did, okay? It's not my fault. Credit card records show that Linda has been staying in a hotel for the last month. They're seeing a marriage counselor. They are everywhere. My coworkers have probably seen them by now. I will never be able to look my boss in the face again. This will follow me forever. Someone is trying to ruin me. Linda, you have Khan embezzled millions upon millions of dollars Mr. Reese. Don't worry, Finch. We still have eyes and ears in the meeting. - Did you bug him? - One better. If anything, this hack, it was a sign from God. Well, this turnaround guy sure is sanctimonious. Too bad you can't be here to stimulate the conversation, John. I'm not much of a public speaker. But I promise to make an appearance if things get exciting. Things always get exciting when you're here. Khan has to go. This company is far too profitable to let him sink it. - That's why the board brought me in. - Khan's on his way into the meeting. Okay, I know it's bad. But come on, it's not Zoe Morgan bad, right? Well, if the board hired me, it seems it's worse than you thought. This is the first meeting I've ever seen him show up to. It's also your last. Okay, they're never gonna agree. Now, listen The vote was unanimous. You're out. Hey, come on. Dean, Gus. Even you, Mark? Buddy. I was best man at your wedding. I mean, you and I came up together. - Four guys in a garage. - What did your e-mail say again? "Mark Lee has the backbone of a dead jellyfish." Yeah, that was it. Yes, I wrote that e-mail. I was angry, I'm sorry. Obviously, I don't feel that way. Look, there's a lot of things I've written in private e-mails that I regret. It's true, I'm embarrassed. I said it. But embezzling money from this company? No. That is an outright lie. And it is clear that I am being set up. Well, three teams of analysts say otherwise. The company needs to distance itself. It's my company. Not anymore. You've been trying to steal my research since day one. You hear that, Finch? Judging by the hard-coded paths in the malware, whoever's behind this hack had an extensive knowledge of the company's internal architecture. It appears that the threat came from within. - You got bored with the core software. - I created the core software. Do you have any idea who you're talking to? Hmm? I'm an innovator. You are nothing more than a glorified accountant. You're not that guy anymore. You lost focus. Draining resources for secret side projects. - And driving this company to bankruptcy. - No. Towards the future. Listen, can any of you think beyond next quarter's numbers? To stay relevant, we need vision. Since this guy came along, the software has become bloated, slow. Frankly, the last update that we had took us backwards in terms of design and efficiency. But the work I'm doing in digital immunization technology is gonna take this company to another level. Imagine a chip that can tell you when your vaccine is outdated. Biotech? That That's what you blew $400 million on? No, no, no. Whoa, whoa. Four? Where did you get that figure? From your financial records. You lost all your money in the crash so you stole from this company to fund your research. I have not stolen a cent. I am being set up, and we both know who is behind it. Are you sure this isn't all in your head? I didn't wanna bring this up, but your medical records were made public. And the last thing this company needs is a bipolar CEO. Hey, hey, now, that is privileged infor Look, I got it under control. I take the meds, okay? Well, judging from your behavior, maybe it's about time to up the dosage. Escort Mr. Khan out of the building. - Guys - And take his ID badge. Come on. Hey, this is Get off of me. You get away. This is not over. If Khan's truly unstable, there's no telling how he'll react. Finch, this takeover just got hostile. - Ted, last one. - Hey, hey, hey, come on. Come on, you can't just take my stuff. Actually, we can. Waxman Law Offices. Where can I direct your call? This is Sul Khan. Can you tell Ira it's urgent? Mr. Waxman is unavailable. Can I take a message? Mandy, would just put him on the phone? I'm sorry to inform you but the firm has dropped you as a client effective immediately. - Linda. - The IRS is at my parents' house. - Something about civil assets forfeiture. - Okay, I swear, I am being set up. You got caught, and you deserve everything coming to you. I can fix this, okay? Even you can't put the pieces back together now. Are you sure you're ready for a relationship, John? She's not gonna hang around forever. Those therapist types, they wanna settle down. Are you spying on me, Zoe? You know, I never figured you with a redhead. Jealous? No. Protective. I'll be okay. She's the one I'm worried about. You know how this ends. Let's just focus on the case. Finch is working to ID the hacker. We should check in and see if he's made any progress. You find it odd that the hacker only went after Khan? Not the rest of the company? What makes you so sure? No mention of the accounting scandal in 2011. How do you know about that? I'm the one they hired to clean up their mess. When one of the studios got hacked, it was like a shotgun blast. Scattershot. Whatever they could hit. This attack on Khan is surgical. Someone wanted to ruin this guy's life, not harm the company. I can name a few board members who benefit from Khan being ousted. Whoever's behind this, it's personal. I thought you'd be gone. I'm sure I've said terrible things about you over the years. You've said worse to my face. - I didn't take the job because you were nice. - This is all my fault. I was so focused on that biochip that I left myself open to an attack. So fight back. Isn't that why you started the company? Yes, it is. Did you get the other thing? How do you know he'll show up? Because Mark is predictable. If there's one thing I can count on he will not pass up an opportunity to see me squirm. Is this registered? That would've taken more time and defeated the purpose. I'm guessing. Thank you. Anytime, boss. The tracker says the case is on this floor. I know we've had our differences, but I miss the days when you could tell me what to do. Where's the tracker? All right, if you won't tell me 110 volts should fry it. I've just lost the signal. It's got to be in here. Where's the damn case? Come on. Let's go. Shh. Could drop it from an airplane. Not even a dent. Shady part of town, no cameras. Khan must have picked this place for a reason. Khan may have lured his old friend there to take revenge. You think Mark's behind the attack? He's capable, with plenty to gain by bringing Khan down. Thanks. I needed to see you in person. Hey. I just bought this. What the hell, man? They could be listening to us. Who? You know I didn't do it, right? Mark, we've been friends for 30 years. I need you to trust me. My entire life has gone viral, and I need to find out why. There's no grand conspiracy here. You got hacked. Oh, yeah? Just me? Hmm? No one else was touched? - You're the face of the company. - This wasn't about sending a message. Why'd you ask for me here, Sul? I need you to go to the meter room. I'm not risking my job for you. We created the world's preeminent anti-virus software. Don't you wanna know how that thing just got gutted? Hmm? Doesn't that drive you crazy? Because it's eating me alive. Now, please, I need to see those gauges. What aren't you telling me? A few weeks ago, when I was working on my gene chip, the entire facility went dark. All right? Now, it turned out the accounts to pay for the power had been drained. You know me. I went down to talk to the accountant directly. Turns out that the funds were used to pay for a shipment of 25,000 barrels of diesel. Come on. When does our company need that kind of fuel? Hey. Stock market flash crash? That wasn't just random. It was targeted at me. Every equity I had went belly up within seconds except for the shares that I had in our company. They didn't want that touched. - Finch, does that check out? - Yes. And those odds are astronomical. I intend to find out why. Who has the ability to control the stock market, Sul? There's only one thing powerful enough to systematically destroy Khan's personal and professional life this thoroughly. Well, this is the crazy part. It's not a human that's after me. It's an artificial intelligence. Samaritan. It's here. We always knew this was possible. - Consider what's happened to me. - Are you this arrogant? Is there nothing that's able to beat you except an artificial intelligence? You and I have gone up against the best. I'm telling you, this attack was faster and more dangerous than anything I have ever seen. Okay, let me explore the possible two options. The first, you're nuts. The second, you're right. There's a super-intelligence after you. Every move you make is being watched. Either way, best I stay as far away from you as possible. I need you to check those meters. Get off of me. Finch, Khan lured Mark here to steal his employee ID badge. I've gotta stop him. If this is Samaritan, he's got a target. You can't afford to get caught in the crosshairs again. Yeah, well, he's gonna get himself killed. There's no way to keep the victim safe if the perpetrator is Samaritan. What's he looking for? If that system is drawing that much power it's doing a lot more than just scanning for viruses. We need to find out what he knows. - I'm making a move, Finch. - No. N. Y.P.D. has arrived on the premises. Detective Riley has no business being there. Samaritan will see through your cover instantly endangering you and everyone you're close to. N.Y.P.D. Put your hands behind your back. Up against the wall. He's clean. We just lost the number, Finch. I believe an exception to the no smoking policy is in order here. Named after the Nepalese warriors, whose undying bravery made a lasting impression on the British soldiers. Over $50,000 a box. Extravagant, even for you. I believe a small celebration is called for. Our online search is drawing to a close with our query in sight. Khan is still a loose end. Mm. Unfortunate inconvenience. His insatiable curiosity will be the death of him. He's forced our hand. Why haven't I been activated? Samaritan wanted to handle this matter personally. Then let me take care of Miss Groves. You've already had your chances with her. Then let's leave nothing to chance as my directive. It's time for her to go. I suppose you're right. Shame, really. If only because she had the misfortune of honoring the wrong god. That's impossible. What's the guy doing over there? Guy was picked up for a simple trespassing. I don't care what the computer says. Khan was sent to Rikers. He was arrested 20 minutes ago. There's no way he got processed that fast. - Someone's got it in for this guy. - We gotta get him out. Good luck. Captain wants me on that other case. That guy's dead. This one's about to be. Come on. I should've intervened when I had the chance. Khan's being railroaded. Any attempt to hack the police database may alert Samaritan to my presence. Samaritan's trying to bury this guy in a deep dark hole forever. And his insatiable need to confirm that fact will be the death of him. I know my rights. I get a phone call. I didn't get my phone call. Says here you already got it. What? No, I didn't. What're you talk? I didn't get a phone call. I didn't get a phone call. Hey, who did I call, okay? I didn't get a phone call. What're you? Just listen to me, okay? Where am I going right now? What are the charges against me? Huh? That's my witness on a joint case with the feds. So where are the feds? Start typing. I better be walking out of here with Khan. Whew. This guy's got bigger problems than trespassing. Six open warrants in five states. Khan's looking at a half-dozen serious felonies. Do the charges hold any water? Yeah, an ocean. Someone greased the skids on this guy. Where did they find a judge this time to deny him bail? I'll take it from here then. - What the hell was that? - Plan B. I gotta go back to work. Let me out of here! Open the gate. Here, check this out. Samaritan's cut the security feeds form the entire cell block. It doesn't want anyone to see what's about to happen. Where are you, Mr. Reese? Cool, man. You've been granted early release. I got him. Samaritan is surely coming for you. Stick to the shadow map. This van's a little big for that and half the guards in Rikers are after us. I know you. You were at the bar tonight. You were following me. It sent you to get me. Hang on. You need to get out of there. Samaritan's coming. Hey, John. Need a ride? Pass the orange chicken. This mean you've forgiven me, Harold? At the moment, we have more pressing matters. This safe house won't stay that way for long. He needs to go. Where does a man hide when a god wants him dead? Finch, this guy's brilliant. Relentless. Maybe we should just read him in. No, he already knows too much. He's not Simon Lee or Claire Mahoney, and there's no convincing him otherwise. The longer he stays around, the more questions he'll have. Wanna really blow his mind? Tell him there are two of these things. Best in the city. They sent you. They sent you to get me. Right idea, wrong machine. Not helping, Miss Groves. Who are you people? The only ones keeping you alive. You almost killed us. Just a little fender bender. Answer our questions and you will be released. All right. Why did you need to see those meters? Company was using 1 O times the power that it's ever used before. It wasn't being used by the servers inside. It was powering something else. It's quite a leap to jump to an Al. Stock market flash crash, cyber-attacks, traffic lights changing at whim. That is the work of an invisible hand that is strangling me. If you're being targeted, we need to know why. - My research. - New software? Biotech. You wouldn't understand. Try me. I'm a fast learner. Digital immunization chip. We're all ready to go into production next year. I think my company was hijacked so that they could steal my research and build a prototype without me. Finch, remember that quaint little town that made transponders? Could this be the next generation? I know an artificial intelligence is trying to kill me. I just don't know why. That's what we're trying to figure out. You believe me? But you don't work for it? Is that my computer? Harold, the port used to hack Khan's system set a small amount of data back to an off-site IP address. I was able to determine its location. - What's there? - Woods. The trees form a canopy blocking any overhead images. Any idea what else is out there? Road trip. What do you think? C4? Overkill? Well, better safe than sorry. Try not to hit any bumps. Mr. Khan, just wait here and let us handle this. Please stay inside as instructed. I am not gonna wait for lightning to strike twice. I need to know why it chose me because whatever is out there, it ruined my life. Shotgun. We're here. Are you sure this is the place? I was expecting something more. Any idea what your company would be doing out here? It's not my company anymore. We're sitting ducks out here. - What is it, Root? - My cochlear implant. I hear something. Picking up Wi-Fi signals. Data images. - Where? - Coordinates. Specific. Just tell me where to aim. My 5 o'clock, 250 meters. Eleven o'clock, 340 meters. Matter of minutes before the cavalry gets here. Middle of nowhere. What were those cameras installed to protect? We're in the right place. What's that? Not sure. But we're standing on it. Get up. - Easy, easy, easy. - What is that? What? It's diagnostics. Diagnostics of what? Anti-virus software. It's just scanning for viruses all over the grid. There's a couple hundred new ones every day. Samaritan has siphoned off the resources of your company. The diesel fuel's being used to run generators around the clock. That is my anti-virus software. All your company's servers have been hijacked. Re-tasked. It's running a scan of epic proportions, a global search. But the results were sent out here. Why? It's not searching for a virus. That code, do you recognize that? We need to leave. Now. - Is there another exit? - No. One way in, one way out. Finch, take it. Then you stay close. What is that? Hey. That was my software. - Yeah, but it's elevated. - And then some. We should hang back. Draw them out. It's Martine. I'm sorry, John. Places to be, people to kill. Damn it, Root. That was the work of an artificial intelligence. What does it do? Who built it? Can it see the future? How does it function? Tell me. You have the answers. Riley. I liked you better as a blond. I need to know what this thing is. It destroyed my life. Yours is not the first life it's ruined. Where's Khan? It seems my answers were unsatisfactory. - They're coming. - I'm gonna kill her! No need to thank me. You should've let me kill her. It won't bring Shaw back. You're right. I should've let you kill her. That's a nice case. Custom-made. Some kind of carbon fiber Kevlar weave. What's inside it? She hasn't told me yet. Well, get some rest. I need you ready for battle. You sure? Hmm. Seems like a waste. But that's why you're the boss. There's still no sign of Khan. Hopefully he's safe, sitting on a beach somewhere. Khan went searching for answers that you wouldn't provide. What did he see down there, Finch? My own creation. When I built the machine, I didn't use any existing operating system or language. The code was one of a kind. Samaritan knew that. So if Samaritan started to search for unrecognizable code using traditional means the machine would've been alerted instantly. So Samaritan found something that the machine would never detect. Khan's software. Installed in every network device. A means and an access already in place. It's a brilliant stratagem, really. This program running in the background of your computer, checking every file. But instead of viruses, Samaritan was using it to search for the machine. Did it find the machine's location? It's only a matter of time. It's a pleasure to finally meet you, Mr. Khan. Sorry we had to resort to rather drastic measures but you've been awfully persistent. Who are you? A man who knows the answers. Why me? Your anti-virus software helped me search the grid to finally track down their machine once and for all. Unfortunately, it determined it's not on any network devices in the world. Machine? What? An artificial intelligence. A god. One of the two among us. I knew it. - Is that it? - This is merely the mountaintop. Does that answer all your questions? I wanna see it. I wanna look in its eyes. Very well.
Not content with an atlas of Patagonia he then proceeded to devour a first-edition Gatsby. If you want him to stop eating your books stop buying them leather-bound. I'll buy you a new one. I don't pay you enough to replace it. You're missing the point. Some things simply cannot be replaced. Coffee? They didn't have your cincha-thing, so I got you mint medley. Oh, I'll go without that. Thank you. Hydrating on a stakeout is a double-edged sword anyway. You forget your water bottle, Finch? Okay, here he is. Evening, Benny. Why are we watching him, again? We have credible information that Mr. Velasco has ran afoul of HR. A member of that organization may try to kill him. Or he may try to kill one of them, I suppose, but it seems unlikely. Hm. Credible information, huh? I trust that the two of you have this covered. We're just gonna wait here to see which dirty cop shows up to kill Benny. - Then we'll save his life. - You make our work sound so simple. Must be, you're leaving us. You brought home a beast, I have to walk it, and water it, and feed it lest it consume any more of my books. Mr. Reese, detective. - Uh-uh. No. - Come on, this is a classic. Classic rock puts me to sleep. I'm still trying to get used to this. Being early. - Early? - I'm homicide, John. Usually, if you're spending time with me, it's because you're already dead. Just look at him. Just walking around don't even know what's coming for him. He ought to. Stealing from a bunch of corrupt cops. No. I've seen a lot of dead bodies. - You know what they all had in common? - Hm? Not one of them looked like they saw it coming. Hey, Wonderboy. Time to pretend to be a detective again. Two Brotherhood guys shot dead. I'm not answering any questions. Elias' guy is sole survivor. His name is Carlo. I'll see what I can find out. Finch, I got two dead Brotherhood guys whose numbers never came up. - Is there some glitch in the machine? - I certainly hope not. Perhaps this is a crime of opportunity. The machine only sees pro-meditation. Could be Elias ordered the shooting in retaliation against Dominic for disappearing his men. And we've just received a new number unrelated to Dominic or Elias. Chase Patterson, 25. His family slain in 2008. Chase was the prime suspect at the time. Was he ever convicted? No. Before he could be charged or arrested Mr. Patterson fled the country. He's just returned to New York City after seven years in Paris. You and Fusco stay on Dominic and Elias. I can handle one murderer on my own. Alleged murderer. Maybe Chase's case file can help clear that up. I'll go down to Evidence and take a look. Congratulations? Don't go buying me that blender just yet, Harry. With Samaritan hunting down the machine I figured we should start our own search for her. I tried to get close to someone I thought had inside information. It ended badly. Not only am I still on the market but we have no leads to help us find her. Miss Groves, how would you like to try your hand at stopping a gang war? It would involve determining whether the machine is functioning properly. When do we start? Must be some mistake. I just wanted the Patterson case file. It wasn't in its proper place. Found it in the primary detective's effects. Effects? Detective's things are evidence now. Evidence? - Why? - She was murdered. You cold? Oh, no, I'm good. You know what's worse than a stakeout? Going back to the precinct at 5 a.m doing three hours of paperwork about a stakeout. There's no paperwork when you're working with me and Finch. Good thing. The stunts you pull. The military wasn't much better. Lots of red tape to go around there too. I never cared much for red tape. My time wasn't like yours, though. You were an officer, I was a grunt. Wasn't really good at anything. Not at first. But later what were you good at then? - Taking orders. Got a little too good at that. You ever think about the future? Doing something else? Sure. Heh. Some days I see so much death. I just think about putting in my 20 and getting out. Where would you go? A beach. Yeah, somewhere where there's no blood. Not showing up on somebody's doorstep with news that you know is gonna ruin their life. Just me and a whole lot of sunshine. So, what's stopping you? Two hours on a beach, and I lose my mind. That, and I could never take Taylor out of school. He's doing good, you know. He's making decent grades decent friends. And Taylor is very proud of his mom. I'll bet he is. Hey, partner. - What are you working on? - It's just a cold case. Nothing urgent. Glasses and Cocoa Puffs are gonna pay a visit to Elias' guy Carlo. Maybe I should stay here and help with this case. You're not exactly employee of the month. - You saying I'm a bad cop? - I'm saying you're a terrible cop. Hey. - Everything okay with you? - Go help Finch. I got things covered. Caught a big one. Home invasion, Park Avenue, quadruple homicide. I'll show you how it's done. You're the rook. You keep the file. Pattersons got a lot of dough. Which means they got a lot of lawyers. Get what I'm saying? - We do this by the book. - Exactly, and I'll do all the talking. I'm sorry, sir, but Mr. Patterson requested not to be disturbed. It's detective. I need to take a quick look around this place. Chase Mr. Patterson's been staying in a different apartment since he got back. Just until he sells the penthouse where it happened. Tell you what, I'll call the building manager. See if he can show you around. So we have four victims. Mom, dad, two of their grown kids. They found them here this morning, tied up, throats slit. Do we buy this home invasion in a doorman building on Park Avenue? Could be an inside job. You said two of their grown kids. Is there another? Chase Patterson, 18, only son. Got kicked out of boarding school last year because they found drug paraphernalia in his dorm. He's the one who found them. You looking for something specific, detective'? It's just a busy day. And you were all present last night? He left after dinner was sewed. And the youngest kid Chase never showed? That's right. Did he get along with his parents? There was friction there. So Chase and his parents fought. Constantly. But you didn't hear anything the night of the murders? Nothing. You know what this is? - You got me. - Pure jade. Easy to carry. Easy to pawn for a good 20 grand. So if Chase killed his family, and stole their things for drug money why leave this behind? Why don't you ask him? What happened, Chase? I went out for the night. I didn't wanna wake anyone when I came home. What did you see? Tessa. Then my other sister and my parents all tied up in a row. Someone had cut their throats. So why was your whole family home that night? We had dinner there every Sunday. And where were you? Come on, Chase, what aren't you telling me? Nothing. I've already told my side. So why are you hiding it now? I'm not hiding it. I told her. - Her? - The detective. Carter, that was her name, right? I gave her my alibi. Now tell me, Chase where were you last night? At our cabin in the Catskills. Doing what? Relapsing. Before last night, I had been clean for six months. Your parents believe that? After my last relapse my morn found me unresponsive in my bedroom. She told me she held my hand all the way from home to the hospital. Didn't let it go until I woke up. That sounds about right for a mom. I had to go to rehab. Every day, my mom would walk me to meetings. I told her, "You're treating me like a child." And what did she have to say about that? That I was a child. Her child. When I went home this morning I was going to ask her to forgive me. And then she was gone. They were all gone. Okay, Chase, you didn't do it. Who did? Tell me. Either charge me or release me. So junkie kid kills his entire family for drug money. Then he sneaks off to a cabin so no one could corroborate his alibi? You said it, when was last time you heard of a home invasion in a doorman building on Park Avenue? Why don't you want to arrest him? I looked into his eyes. He's damaged but there is no way in hell he slit his mother's throat. Terney. Thank you. The murderer's DNA came back a familial match. I'm going to the cabin. See if I can corroborate his story. - Thank you, Carlo. - Keep that psycho away from me. Hey, Harold, did you talk with Elias' guy Carlo? Miss Groves just finished questioning him. It appears that Carlo went to the deli to cash in a free-sandwich coupon. While he was waiting for it, Dominic's men entered and headed for the chips and dip. Should've had a picnic. It does appear that this was a crime of opportunity which means that the machine is indeed functioning as intended. Have you determined whether Mr. Patterson is a victim or a perpetrator? - Not yet, but I'm following him. - I'll meet you. You're trying to stop a gang war, remember? So now that you know all of my retirement plans what has the Man in the Suit got planned after he hangs up the suit? I haven't given it much thought. Don't play with me, John. I just cleaned my service weapon. Now, spill. There is no after for people like us. No peace for you no retirement for me. We don't do fairy tales. That's how we're built. You don't really believe that. Tell me something. How'd you wind up here in the first place? I'm pretty sure you drove us here. No. Here in this car drinking cold coffee, stalking a bar owner in the middle of the night. Where else should I be? You went to law school. How about a corner office downtown? Thank you for proving my point. I started off on one path but I changed, because that wasn't the end game for me, John. You can change too. No one changes, Carter. You're here because this is where you were always headed. No one changes. Says the man who was a hobo the first night I met him. You might not have changed, but your wardrobe has. So whatever path you were on you took a detour. Yeah. And I'll get where I'm going soon enough. And what does that mean? Hey, good news. Glasses told me to bring you dinner. Am I interrupting something? No, but hotdogs aren't dinner, Fusco. Not for normal people. Guess it's the thought that counts. You don't want my help? No problem. I got better places to be. Good luck with this one. What did you mean, John? I just meant things tend to work out the way they're supposed to. All right. Whatever you like. And what does that mean? It means there are two kinds of friends. Ones you talk about the game with, and ones you share your life with the real stories. Up to you which one you want me to be. But you need to decide. Because for a spy lying isn't your strong suit. Someone here? Chase. I just came here to talk. Why don't you come out where I can see you? - Carter. - You better get back here. - I can't. I think Chase was here. - Not unless you're at JFK. The kid took off on a flight to Paris an hour ago. We caught a new one, domestic gone wrong, Lower East Side. - No, what about the Pattersons? - I'm sorry, Carter, you're breaking up. Detective. Aah! It isn't wise to sneak up on people. I wasn't sneaking. This is my place. - But those drugs aren't mine. - What do you mean? I mean someone must have put them there. Someone? Who? Phil. What's going on? It's Gil. Not Phil. And that's the last time you're gonna make that mistake. Brother. - Brother? - Not that I'm proud to call a drug-addict loser my brother. Probably got that from your mother's side. - You're saying my father? - Our father! He knew my mom in high school. He was real nice to her until he knocked her up. That's who our father was. Because of that you killed him and my entire family. What about my family? When my mom died, I had nobody. So I tracked my father down. But he had a new family. And he tried paying me to go away. Any father who would give up his son twice doesn't deserve to have a family. Why not kill me too? Oh, I planned to. But you went away. I had to bide my time for seven years. And now I get to watch you kill yourself. Sit. Pick up the pills. Swallow them. I give you about eight hours to live. There's no need to be scared. I'll be sitting right here with you. I'll be watching every minute of your death. Detective. You cops sure have a knack for showing up at the wrong time. Your colleague. That, uh, lady detective. Well, she interrupted me too. Back then I was too scared to kill a cop. You know, she got shot last year anyway. Goes to show I should have killed her when I had the chance. When your number is up Well, you know the saying. I can't dig a hole without a shovel. Don't you go anywhere. You're not cold? I am freezing here. So we're talking about the weather now? Fine. What do you wanna talk about, Carter? It's not what I want to talk about. It's what I'm willing to talk about if you want to. On the night we met transit picked you up on the J train at Canal. So maybe you were going to pay a traffic ticket at 3 a.m. Or maybe you were going to take a walk on the Brooklyn Bridge. Is that the path you were talking about? Her name is Jessica. Although I think you already know that. She liked the rain. Sleeping in. She told really bad jokes. And called me out when I pretended to enjoy them. And her laugh God, I loved her laugh. You can't blame yourself for what happened to her, John. It's not a question of blame, it's a fact. She needed me and I left her behind. Can I ask why? I thought I wasn't gonna make it back alive. She deserved a better life than waiting to become a widow. She deserved happiness. Not quite how it worked out, though. I'm sorry, John. But I'm not buying it. You may be able to fool your police shrink with that version. Maybe even yourself. - But not you, huh? - No. You're forgetting I was over there too. You'd already been deployed once when you broke things off. Hell, you were already active military when you met. So you wanna tell me what really happened? Why does it matter now? It matters because I'm afraid you're gonna use this poor woman to shut everybody out. Right until the bitter end. Whatever it is you're not telling me, that's the real reason why you're alone. And because time is running out. Time. Hell, we got all the time in the world. Benny is asleep. It'll be hours before Finch brings us breakfast. No, listen to me, John. Your time is running out. You're dying, John. What? I don't understand. You got him, John. The monster that killed Chase's family. And he got you pretty good too. You managed to get to Chase's car. You need to get help. And if you don't, you're going to die. And so is Chase. I've lost some blood but I don't think I'll bleed out before they get here. Before who gets here? Fusco. Finch. Maybe Root. Are you forgetting? You didn't tell anybody you were coming up here. True to form, you didn't reach out. Afraid it's just you and me, John. But you're right. You probably won't bleed to death. It's the cold that will kill you first. Unless you do something about it. You need to get those keys, John. Hey, Glasses. - That info from Carlo lead to anything? - Sadly, no. I've been trying unsuccessfully to reach Mr. Reese. Yeah, well, good luck. Haven't seen or even heard from Colombo since this morning. - Really? - Why? Something got you worried? Nothing in particular. - Where was he last time you guys talked? - Following Chase Patterson. Patterson. - That's the case Wonderboy pulled? - I'm afraid so. If you do hear from him, will you let me know? Yeah, sure thing. You worry too much, Harry. I'm sure wherever he is, the big lug can take care of himself. All right, keep it moving. You know how this works. You stop, you die. Come on, you've seen worse than this. You didn't really survive all of that to just wind up dying now. Out here, alone. At the hands of a psycho who got off one lucky shot. I didn't think so. Attaboy, John. I knew you could do it. You sure you were an interrogator and not a drill sergeant? I thought you liked following orders. Now, you think you can make it back? If I'm gonna bleed to death at least I'm gonna listen to some good music. At least we can agree on this one. Heh. I've missed you. That's good. Being missed means you meant something to people while you were here. So, heh, heh you're a cop now? Ha-ha-ha. - Not a real one. - No? Well, that shield looks pretty real. And so does the dead bad guy in the snow. Even got you a partner. Poor Fusco. Mm. Wait. What are we still doing here? I could drive us back. John, listen to me. - There's something wrong with this. - No, there's not. - I'm burning up in here. - Why can I see your breath? It's not too hot. It's too cold. Engine won't start. Cars don't like the cold. Come on, John. You know this. The heat you're feeling is a hallucination. The last symptom of hypothermia. You're freezing to death, John. John? John. You gotta stay awake. Concentrate. Where are you going? The highway. I can flag down a car. That's the hypothermia talking. - You're confused. - I'm not. Look, here comes one. Step out of this car, and you die. But the light That's not headlights. That's the moon. The moon. The storm passed. No one's coming. He's really got you worried, doesn't he, Harry? John has always maintained a certain distance. But this is not like him. So have you found anything? I managed to isolate the location of his phone's last connection to our mesh network. Unfortunately, the signal was lost soon after. And I have no other means of determining his location. I'm sorry, Harry. Beautiful, isn't it? No noise. No people. Nothing. May as well tell me why you really left her behind. No point taking secrets where you're going. Trust me. First tour. We were outside of Herat. Making our way through the mountains at night. We heard shooting. Group of rangers stumbled into the Taliban in the dark. By the time we got there, they were all dead. Both sides. Just one of those things. We had to be over the mountains by sunrise. So we searched them. Took their tags, their water, their ammunition, and we just kept moving. Then I noticed something. They all had a picture. Girlfriend, wife, kid. After a while I realized everybody I found on either side had a picture. They were fighting for something. They were dying for something. I figured maybe if I didn't have a picture to carry around with me I'd be better at my job. So when I got back I broke things off with Jessica. Maybe you're right, then. Maybe this is the path you've been on all along. The path that led you right here. Don't reach out to anyone. Shut everybody out. Not everyone. What? I didn't shut you out. We had a connection. I could talk with you. About important things. The things that really mattered. But John you never did. What? Of course I did. That night. We were staking out the bar. - We talked. - Yes, we talked about music, our jobs. - And Jessica. - No, John. Listen, I told you about her. How she liked the rain and sleeping in. I wish we'd had that conversation but we never did. Here, this picture. Remember? You kept this. Then you gave it to me when we talked about her that night. I kept the photo but I never gave it to you. You were talking about a path you were on. I asked if you wanted to talk about it and you didn't. - I did. - No. You cracked a couple jokes and then you turned the radio up. And that was it, we never got to Jessica. I kept that photo to give to you at the right moment. When you were willing to share that part of yourself with me. But you never were, John. It's like you said. You're here because you were always headed here. I wanted to talk to you about her. - I just wish we had more time. - Heck, well That's something we never get enough of. You're right. I don't let people in. That's not why I didn't tell anyone about the case. I wanted to close this one myself. - Just me. - Why? It was a chance to be close to you again. I don't wanna share that with anyone else. There's another reason why I kept that photo. It was a side of you I hadn't seen. Happy. Hopeful. In love. You can feel that way again, John. You just gotta hold on. There are people who care about you. Who could love you. You just gotta let them in. It's like what you told me before. Whether I liked it or not I wasn't alone. Neither are you. Will you stay with me? Just for a little bit. Yes, of course. Just hold on, John. Joss we made it.
We are being watched. The government has a secret system. A machine that spies on you every hour of every day. I designed the machine to detect acts of terror, but it sees everything. Violent crimes involving ordinary people. The government considers these people irrelevant. We don't. Hunted by the authorities, we work in secret. You will never find us. But victim or perpetrator, if your number's up, we'll find you. - We are only numbers to it. - No, the machine cares about us. The second that a bullet enters your brain, the machine will cast you off and replace you. I want them to release you. I just want it to be done. Okay, Anthony. If you better understood Samaritan you'd know it employees a private army to do its bidding. You would suspect they would employ one of them as a spy in your own organization. Hey, hon. Are you at work? Not yet. My morning's been hellish. Jackson forgot his lunch again today. He can eat cafeteria food because I have got a ton of papers to grade before second period. Oh, my God. My brakes aren't working. - My brakes. - What? - What do you mean? - Dennis! No, no. Get the body. All good, ma'am. Right on schedule. Drive. - You look like hell. - Happy to see you too, Lionel. Next time you decide to take on a psychopath in a frozen tundra, call your partner first. Hey. You're right. You're a good detective. And a damn good friend. You have a temperature or something? I'm still standing. Which is more than I can say for our friends here. Brotherhood soldier. Elias' guy came out of nowhere. Shot Dominic's boys and disappeared. It's like deja vu all over again. Lionel, tell me this. How'd a gunman get through security? That's a good question, detective. Finch, I got four dead Brotherhood soldiers. Why didn't the machine give us their numbers this time? I wish I knew. It's no stretch to imagine that a cunning fugitive like Elias might have found a way to communicate that the machine can't trace. At least that's one theory. You got another? Samaritan has found the machine. If that were true we'd all be dead. What happened, Miss Groves? Turns out the People's Republic is surprisingly lax on full-body searches. - How goes you gang war, Harry? - Dangerous. I'm afraid it's only a matter of time before Dominic retaliates. Might be sooner than you think. You getting this number, Finch? It's actually two numbers, Mr. Reese. Dominic and Elias. It seems the two crime bosses are hell-bent on killing each other. God knows how many victims will get caught in the crossfire. We have to find a way to stop this war, Mr. Reese. Got a feeling this might help. Hmm. It's some sort of canister. I'll look into that. In the meantime, I've managed to trace the Brotherhood security transport trucks to a new location. Thanks. I'll take Lionel. - It's the last one. - All right. We got a problem. - Boys want retribution for the courthouse. - They'll have it in due time. But time's running out. We got soldiers with itchy trigger fingers Looks like there's trouble in paradise. We need to take action. You and me, we go back a long time. Remember that skinny pockmarked kid from Trinidad? You told him it's not enough to hit back. No, you need to put your enemy in the ground. I haven't forgotten. Only one way this war ends. Brotherhood's preparing for battle. - Increased security patrols. - Mr. Reese? I was thinking you and Fusco might stop by the bank. You need us to make a deposit, Finch? The canister from the crime scene is a remnant of a long-defunct pneumatic tube mail network that once ran beneath the city. One of its hubs was an old retail bank which has recently found new ownership. - Carl Elias? - Indeed. Mr. Elias appears to have revived it to conceal his communications. And smuggle murder weapons into highly secured government buildings. If Elias is at the bank, we'll find him. Shaw's phone. Finch? I have to go, Mr. Reese. You'll have to manage Elias yourself. Hello? Root, are you there? It's me. I need your help. Shaw? Wait, Sameen. Where am I? Why are you doing this? We need to talk about Samaritan. I I don't know what that means. You know Tyler, don't you, Shelly? What? No. I don't know that man. He was one of my best agents. It's your last chance to say goodbye. No. - No, no. - Please, don't. Oh, no! No! How could you forget a face like that? I don't understand. Why are you doing this? I want you to be helpful. Tyler was helpful. At first. He admitted to being one of several Samaritan moles embedded in the ISA. He admitted that you were their handler. I'm just a teacher and a mom. I just I just wanna go home to my family. I understand. I'm a mother too. That's why I'm giving you one last chance to save your own life. Tell the truth, Shelly. Or you too will end up a spot on the wall. Root, are you there? It's me, I need your help. She's alive, Harold. We wrote her off for dead, but she's alive. - We don't know that, Miss Groves. - Except we do. I just talked to her on a call originating from the city. Can we take just five minutes and talk this through? The last time we had this conversation, I actually listened to you. And to the machine. Called off my search. And all this time she needed us, Harold. Like she needs us now. Isn't this your specialty? Helping people when the phone rings? - That call is most certainly a trap. - I know. But Sameen's still alive and I'm going after her. I can't help you, Miss Groves, if you insist on this impossible pace. Root, what are we doing out here? When you told me to stop looking for Shaw, I did. But now I need you to help me. I can't do this alone. Oh, dear. Harold taught you blackjack and chess but I wonder if he ever taught you how to play chicken. I'm gonna walk across this ledge with my eyes closed until, A you help me find Sameen or, B, I fall tragically to my death. - Ah! - Miss Groves. You've calculated the wind speed, so you know how treacherous this is. You have to ask yourself what's worse: The two of us working together or me taking this next step alone. Thanks for playing. Come on, Harry. She found us a ride. The machine's located Sameen. Buckle up. Shaw's call originated from a landline somewhere inside that asylum. Steiner Psychiatric Institute. State controlled, with a closed security system. Which explains our little pit stop. The machine would never let us show up empty-handed to a rescue mission. Did the machine have any thoughts about us not getting ourselves killed? Right now she's pretty fixated on this shovel. This looks like the spot. - You got a plan to get in, partner? - Relax, I got a backstage pass. - We need a word with your boss. - What makes you think he's here? How about we come back with a SWAT team? That's what I thought. We're in the bank, Finch. John, I may have to go offline for a while. We found Sameen. Shaw? She's alive? Text me the address. I'm on my way. I need you to babysit Elias. I don't need a sitter, John. And I warned you not to interfere. By interfering, you mean saving your life? Again? - Who says I need saving? - How long do you think you got before the Brotherhood comes looking to make their own withdrawal? Pneumatic tubes once looped around the entire island of Manhattan delivering mail and money. American ingenuity at its finest. And you would have me leave, flee like a coward? - No. You know me better than that, John. - I know you used to be careful. Canister in the trash? Sloppy. And enough evidence to charge you with conspiracy to commit murder. - Are you placing me under arrest, detectives? - If you don't go quietly Time to end this war. This is your last chance, detectives. Walk away while you still can. The Brotherhood. - Can't say I didn't warn you. - Hurry. Need another way out. Just like old times. This way. Fool me once, old man. Eleven weeks ago, this second-rate facility upgraded to a fiber optics network it can't possibly afford. Come on, Harry. Information travels through optical fiber in pulses of light. - Just one percent of any one pulse contains - One hundred percent of the data. Like a drop of blood carrying DNA. Exactly. Our micro-clamping friend here will bend the cable just enough to leak a little light. They'll never know they've been hacked. This is a cascade of information. Samaritan is doing more than just harboring Miss Shaw in there. We'll need to crack its considerable encryption. She's already accessing your laptop. "All forces on alert. We will soon isolate the machine." They're close to finding you. I don't care what happens to me. - What did the machine tell you? - She says it's too dangerous. I'm inclined to agree, Miss Groves. This isn't just a rescue mission to save Shaw. The machine needs our help too. If we don't save them, who will? Detective, looks like you caught a bullet through the shoulder. Props to the shooter. He's dead. You'll be joining him soon enough. Extra cell. Let me guess, it belongs to our friend Riley. Fake cop needs one for his day job and one for special assignments. What are we waiting for? We should put Elias down now while we have the chance. Tell me, how do Elias and his buddies manage to stay one step ahead? They got good intel. We kill them now, that intel dies with them. This isn't just about running the city. This is about staying alive long enough to enjoy it. What do the Romans say? "I came, I saw, I conquered." - Can't conquer what you don't understand. - Exactly. In this day and age, a fugitive crime lord like yourself remains free. How? Because two of New York's finest protect and serve you. At least they used to. From now on, they answer to me. And you're all gonna tell me how this little symbiotic relationship works. How are we gonna know they're telling the truth? That's why I invited a mutual friend. Sorry, boys. But I got an offer I couldn't refuse. You admitted me to the funny farm once. Turnabout's fair play. I don't recall dressing you like a homeless dope fiend. It's not that bad. You look more hipster than homeless. Did the machine have any instructions for me? She said, "Just be honest." - Doctor, how can I help you? - I need to admit this man on the TDO 72-hour involuntary hold. He's an increasingly dangerous paranoid schizophrenic. Unless he'd care to disagree. It's not paranoia if they're really out to get you. Who exactly is after you? The Brotherhood, the federal government. An artificial super-intelligence, obviously. - What's your name, sir? - I go by many names. All derived from species of birds. I'd mark him as a John Doe. He basically lives in the subway. Thanks, we'll take it from here. Everything's gonna be okay. Find Lenny, tell him they stole his spaceman. I hate to interrupt this scintillating contest, but I was hoping to find Lenny. Thank you. Pardon me, Lenny. These gentlemen stole your spaceman. Liars! - Calm down. - You stole my spaceman. The ninth floor is reserved for the most violent patients. It's the most secure and it's the only floor without surveillance cameras. It's also the only floor with secure elevator access. This has to be it. I'm searching the electronic charts for a profile that might match Sameen's. Okay, don't lose your head, Miss Groves, this might mean nothing. But they're holding a compact Persian sociopath in Room 914. Stay tuned, Harold. Everything we have worked for, it's coming to fruition. The correction is upon us. Stand by for instructions. You need to leave, Harold. - Now. - Not without you, Miss Groves. You don't have a choice. This is Samaritan's base of operations. We're in the belly of the beast. You have to shut your eyes. A lesson I've learned all too well. I would've stayed in the dark too if some friends hadn't convinced me to dig a little deeper. Now, I'm curious. How does a prep school girl from Greenwich ever come to work for Samaritan? I I have no idea who this Samaritan is. This is all a huge mistake. Please. Please, I I have a daughter. Sarah, she's a She's a toddler. And my son, Jackson, he's just starting second grade. I just wanna go home and see them. I'm sorry. I know how you feel. I lost my mother too at a very young age. But you already know that, don't you, Shelly? That's why you keep playing the mother card. Did it tell you to do that? Did it think that you could handle me too? How many agents are you handling for Samaritan? You recognize anyone? Kind of looks like Tyler. At least it used to. I go to the park on my lunch hour. I like to watch the artists paint. Who do you watch in the coffee shop? I'm in that coffee shop at least three times a week. This is just - This is some sort of freak coincidence. - A more pertinent question would be what's a middle-aged caffeine-addicted schoolteacher doing roaming the halls of the White House? You have no idea what's coming for you, bitch. I'm offering a place at the table. Acknowledge me as the head of the five families and you and your men can live. Just because you're sitting at the head doesn't mean you can lead. - My men are loyal to me. - Which men? The Cosa Nostra or our boys in blue? Ah, and then there's the mysterious third party. The guy with the tech, the hacker. Don't bother lying. I told them about Harold. Honest about your deceit. How noble. Harold's tapped into the city's cameras. I want his system. You're gonna kill me regardless. Why turn on a friend? Like you turned on your right-hand man? Anthony, right? How's it feel knowing you're responsible for your friend's death? You really wanna know? Be careful what you wish for, Dominic. We'll start with the hand and work our way up. Where do you meet Harold? Do you have a safe house in the city? If I knew, I would have told you by now. Where is your boss, detective? Truth is I don't know. Truth hurts. You want some air, tell me where your hacker boss is. - Again. - Wait. Wait. Wait. You got? You got a loofah? Maybe you can wash my back while you're at it. Found this in one of the canisters. - Date and time of the courthouse hearings. - Got a rat in our crew. He got our boys killed. An inside man selling secrets to Elias. Fish him out, we got more important business. Come help me out. I'll go get the key. Listen, I got a little text from Thornhill. She said I could name my price if I save your ass. Hey, thanks for the spa day, sunshine. I'm not done with you yet. This is a restricted floor, doctor. Sorry. I was looking for an aspirin stash. I have a lower back thing. Sameen? You just missed her. Time to finish what we started. You read my mind. - Where are they taking her? - Relax, I'm sure it's someplace nice. You should be proud of Shaw. She held out for a month or two. I had to hurt her pretty bad. But she broke eventually. Lying bitch. And by the way, thanks for doing everything she said you would do. You're calmer than normal, John. Given the circumstances. I took a trip to the mountains. I saw an old friend. She reminded me of what I've been missing. And what is that? Life. And yet here you are, stuck in a dark basement with me. You should have heeded my warning. You knew the Brotherhood was coming. That canister in the trash that wasn't a mistake. Did I leave a breadcrumb? Just wondering what's up your sleeve. Trapdoor? Pneumatic tubes rigged with C-4? I'm afraid this is my last stand. You're an honorable man, John. It's been nice knowing you. Gonna need you to write a little letter. With your good hand. "At sunrise, 3648 Lafayette Avenue." Unless you want Riley here to wipe for you. How about you come a little closer? I'll settle my own score, John. My friends are upset because they've discovered a traitor in their midst. Now write "veni, vidi, vici." The address to the Brotherhood's base of operations. As far as your men are concerned, their boss just gave orders to invade. When they come, the Brotherhood will be waiting. Your men can die by your hands or you can give me the name of the rat in my crew. Let's get her strapped to the bed. This shouldn't take long. Really, Miss Groves, there's such a thing as nobility in defeat. I have everything I need to find the machine. No amount of kicking will change that. If you'd found the machine, I'd be the first to know. Exactly. We have scoured every network device on the planet without success. Until I realized you are the last piece of the puzzle. The answer is in your head. I don't have the slightest idea where the machine's located. Not in your brain, in your head. Your direct line to the machine. The cochlear implant. Your little girlfriend told us all about it. She would never We have no reason to lie about something like that. Welcome, Mr. Finch. You're just in time to see us cut your friend's head open. There'll be some brain damage, but you'll still be able to clothe and feed yourself. Although I can't say you'll be much of a marksman moving forward. Harold doesn't have to see this. If you want, I'll end him first and let you watch. Lay a hand on him, I'll kill you. Sit back. Relax, honey. Or I'll lay more than just a hand on him. He doesn't look like much of a fighter. Bet he'll die without so much as a peep. What do you know? Not a peep. Now I surrender. Who's your contact at the White House? I used to admire you. The work you did for your country. You can still prove that you're a true patriot. How? - By letting you go? - No, this is not about me. It's about to begin. The correction. Correction? For whom? Don't worry, it's nothing you haven't done yourself. What are you talking about? The ferry bombing. You sanctioned Nathan Ingram's death, along with all the other innocent people. - Samaritan is planning an attack. - Attack? Is that how you would classify the actions you took to protect your country? When? May 6th. What does that number mean? You can go ahead and shoot me. I'm not gonna tell you. You should save your energy, because you're gonna need it. Do you know the story of Sodom and Gomorrah? Lot's wife couldn't help but look back at the burning city and she burst into a pillar of salt. But you can still save yourself if you don't do anything to stop the correction. You said yourself, you're good at shutting your eyes. Well, the world is about to catch fire. Here's your last chance to look away. Time's up. Do we have an agreement, or do we send the note and exterminate your men? - Send it to the tubes. - Okay, okay. You win. Just, please, just leave my men alone. Now, tell me who's your informant? He has me send payments to this account. Your money man can verify. We'll be hearing shortly. Yeah, Lawrence. What do you got? No, that'll be all. Lawrence give you a name? An alias. I need your advice on how to deal with this. It's not enough to hit back. Gotta put your enemy in the ground. Whose name was on the account? It's yours, Link. Oh. Oh, man. You can take my title, but you can't hold onto it. You can't trust anyone. Now your men won't trust you. They trust that I will exterminate a rat. A rat? I might have lied about a few things. Like the message your man intercepted. You planted that message? You knew we were coming. Well, good news, there's no rat in your organization. Bad news, you need a new right-hand man. You wanna kill me, go ahead. You were always gonna win this war anyway. Kill him, you'll never get the information you want. Tell me you have another plan, Elias. This is my plan, John. I told you I'd make them answer for Anthony. So tell me how does it feel knowing that you're responsible for your friend's death? Shall we continue? Have you forgotten her so quickly? You've already discarded her and you're a human being. Imagine how quickly that thing that you've created would discard you. Do you ever lay awake at night wondering if one day it will see you as a threat? Or worse, as irrelevant? How arrogant of you to think that any of us are anything but irrelevant. Samaritan is offering your machine a second chance to save the lives of its human agents. Give up its location or they die. The offer expires in 60 seconds. Don't do it. Please. Don't give yourself up. Harold was right. We are interchangeable. You can replace us. You can keep fighting. Don't do it. Don't die for us. Until the next time, Mr. Finch. Go home to your loved ones. Hold your daughter tight, because a new day is dawning. And those who impede progress the disruptive, the aberrant, will be systematically purged from our society. There will be no mercy. No stay of execution. For some, this will be the end but for others a rebirth. A second chance to live the life they were designed for. Every life given a purpose. Samaritan will build a new world. A better world. Too bad you won't live to see it. The machine gave up its location to save our lives. They're going to kill her, Harold. - Do you know where they're going? - I don't know. But we have to get there first before it's too late.
- May 6th. - It's about to begin. Whose name was on the account? It was yours, Link. You planted that message? How does it feel to know you're responsible for the death of your friend? The machine gave up its location to save our lives. They're going to kill her, Harold. An update now on our top story. Utilities have yet to determine what is behind these power surges although speculation ranges from aging infrastructure to Chinese hackers. Samaritan. It appears to have located the machine, most likely on a data farm out west. But the surges are happening all over, now headed east. It's possible the machine distributed itself in more than one place. Samaritan's trying to cut off her power, starve her. - And for all we know, it's already succeeded. - Still no word from the machine? Not since Greer let us go. She won't talk to me. Or can't. It's coming from behind the wall. Must have been walled in during renovation decades ago. Zero, zero, zero, zero. - What is it? - Nine zeros. It's the machine's distress code. I programmed it in to warn me of an imminent system shutdown. - Shutdown? You mean? - The machine is dying, Ms. Groves. - Three-one-four. - Three-one-four. Pi. That's the code for the case. She needs our help. How can we help if we don't know where it is? She needs us to pick up a few more things, and fast. - We'll find her on the way. - Mr. Reese isn't answering his phone. A mission this critical, shouldn't we try to find him? You wanna stay and wait for the phone to ring? Fine, but right now we have another calling. Time to make a deal, Detective Riley. The Elias era is over. New world order. I want the same arrangement he had. Your friend Harold is gonna be my inside man. I want the keys to the city. There are no keys. No arrangements. You think I'm stupid? No. You're just smart enough to get yourself killed. Go get Detective Fusco. Put a bullet in his head. - Here I thought you couldn't look any worse. - You should've seen the other guy's knuckles. - That was kind of hot. - Let's go, champ. Zachary, how goes the hunt? A quarter of the nation's power supply has been compromised. Soon the machine will lose access to it entirely. We've all but treed the fox, Mr. Greer. Splendid. Then burn down the tree. Shiffman, index these numbers with addresses, coordinates. We're looking for a target. Threat reports for tomorrow, May 6th. New York, Chicago, D.C. Just the highlights. Yankees game, Empire State Building, subway system all low. Willis Tower, Wrigley Field negligible. D.C. - No reports for D.C. - None? There they are. All low. Must have been a glitch. Samaritan had a glitch? I have reason to believe an attack is gonna take place in the next 24 hours. It's called the "correction." May 6th. What have you heard? Any operations in and around the capital? All quiet except the address in Columbia Heights. - The one in the memo. - What memo? Operational quarantine. Do not disturb. Nobody in or out. Columbia Heights? Who wrote this memo? Ma'am, you did. Detective's gone. Somebody sprung him. And look who came back. - Why would I help some cop? - Because that's your game. You play both sides of the fence. - Just like you did with us and the cartel. - Unh! Didn't think I'd ever really trust you, did you? I came to get answers. The only thing we're leaving is bodies. Lock down all the exits, find Detective Fusco, and shoot him on sight. She's talking to me again, Harry. Surely the machine isn't hiding itself in a high-end apartment building. We're here for a reason. We just have to do what she says when she says it. Easy for you to say. You're the one the machine says everything to. There's no fire. Our alarm didn't go off. Why did our system say it did? We got confirmation from Dispatch. See, Harry? The machine has a plan. The penthouse? Look at these. Leading edge of night-vision system. Ultra HD. Built-in infrared illuminator. And a piezoelectric battery that charges itself whenever it's moved. Never run out of juice. Go ahead. Turn off lights. Sold. We'll take them. Got what we came for. Come on, Harry. Oh, dear. Why aren't we moving? New York's Bravest down there must have disabled the emergency override. - We have to reprogram the controls. - There's no time. No more standing on the sidelines. You want us to save your skin? Get in the game. Thank you. Get ready, Harry. Something tells me this won't be our last wild ride today. The machine wants us to break into Caleb's office and borrow a few things. Your employee ID got us through the front door, Ms. Groves. But accessing the company code will be a whole other matter. For a genius, my boss keeps his code locked behind a surprisingly last-gen security structure. The cameras are resisting loops, so I've had to disable them entirely. You sure that's such a good idea, Harry? If the machine can't see us, she can't help us. I found the code. Now I just need to download it. That was way too easy. - Which means - Just relax, guys. I'm sure there's a good reason why Shannon here or whatever your name really is, broke into a secure area and tried to access my compression algorithm. I know this sounds insane, but I'm trying to save the world and your compression algorithm plays a small but crucial part of doing that. I just I can't think why I should trust you. Then don't. Trust him. Hello, Caleb. Mr. Swift. What's going on here? Let me just take a moment to say how proud I am of everything you've done since I knew you as a student. And I truly wish there were time here for a more appropriate and meaningful reunion. But right now I have to try to explain as best I can why we need your algorithm. Hold on, Mr. Swift. Anything you need, you can have, no explanation necessary. You saved my life. Thank you. Boys, there's no time. Oh, and, Caleb we also borrowed a few of the prototype You knew about Project X? Really needed it. Thanks again. Huh. Look what we have here. Phone hooked up to my mesh network. Detective Riley and company commandeered it for themselves. Clearly you owe me a big favor. We got a soldier down, south exit. No radio response. We gotta move out. That's quite a dilemma. You stay and be caught or leave empty-handed. Unlock it. Get Harold down here, or both their lives are on you. I won't ask again. Perhaps if we knew the machine's location we could determine how much time we have to save it. Clearly the machine is experiencing some kind of malfunction brought on by these power surges. So far all we've gathered to save it is one algorithm a few RAM chips and a pair of night-vision goggles. - Hardly a recipe for success. - Recipe? We're not baking a cake here, Harold. Trust the process. - Mr. Reese. What a relief to hear from you DOMINIC: Mr. Reese? Of course. I figured Riley wasn't his real name. Nice to meet you, Harold. Can't wait to start working together. - Where is John? - Don't worry about John. Long as you cooperate, he gets to keep on breathing. We'll send you a new location. Be there in 15. Alone. The machine will have to wait. I have to help John. - Harold, the machine is the priority here. - No, people are the priority here, Ms. Groves. The machine's only reason for existing is to save them. I'm not gonna sacrifice John to help rescue an Al that on its best days is cryptic and withholding and on its worst, borderline homicidal. She's not perfect, Harold, but she's the only chance we've got. We let Sameen slip away, so now we're supposed to let John go too? I didn't wanna sacrifice Sameen either. But if the machine dies, the world we wake up in tomorrow is one none of us wants to see. She needs John alive as much as we do. She won't let him down. Come on. Come on, jump in the car. Are you out of your mind? Since when is that relevant? Get in, Harry. Looks like we found our Harold. Which means you are no longer needed. Nor you. Put them down. Let's get the hell out of here. Mr. Reese comes with us. What the hell is that? Old fax machine. What does it say? "Sharp right leg. Left knee, ACL. Tactical blade. Glass jaw." - Can you hear me? - Hell, yes. - Ten o'clock. - Shoot him. Three o'clock. One o'clock. Drop the gun. Get down. I said down on the ground. - All clear. - Got him, detective. Detective Fusco. You're under arrest, jackass. Quarantine address, Columbia Heights. Get the ratchet. Takes some balls to run an off-the-books op at a quarantined address. Why'd you choose me? You had Agent Shaw in your sights, and you let her go. You value people over protocol, and you're not afraid to question authority. Well, then I have another question. Why are we breaking into this place? - That quarantine order from Research? - Mm-hm? I never ordered it, that's why. - That smell. - Ammonium nitrate. Fertilizer. From the smell, a lot of it was here just a few hours ago. Blueprints too, but for what? Ma'am, you need to see this. Propane tank. Why is the lid cut off? To build a bomb. There's at least a half a dozen more. Enough to blow an entire floor off a federal building. And whoever made it is already on the move. Take care of yourself, John. - I'm gonna enjoy watching you get put away. - Wouldn't count those chickens just yet. I'm gonna go along. Make sure the feds don't screw this one up. - Wanna jump in the van? - I'll take a rain check. Need to help Finch. You did a nice job, Lionel. I fail to see how over a dozen bags of ice plays into our larger mission. It's Cinco de Mayo. If she asked us to pick up some salt and limes, I'd say you have your answer. Which brings me to my next concern. You've been in God Mode since this morning. Isn't such constant contact with the machine likely to attract Samaritan's attention? When you're right, you're right. Start the car. Hey, you're 5 bucks short on the ice. - Whoa. We're cool, we're cool. - Appreciate your understanding. Get in. With the wave of brownouts spreading across the U. S experts expect power surges and outages up the East Coast and into the greater New York area. Management's been redirecting everyone. There have been surges all over the country. We're gonna be banking some serious OT tonight. What the hell are you doing? We've been replacing these for how many months now? - Never been tempted to see what's inside? - It's a line conditioning box. That's all you need to know. Now put it back. But why aren't we allowed to see what's inside? - What's the worst that could happen? - Last guy who had your job he opened up one of those boxes. Next day, he was gone. That's all I know. - You're the boss. - Smart. Now get in the cab. - Senator. - Why the urgent meeting? Your phone. Soundproofed. Heh. Job finally getting to you? Not the job. Samaritan. We need to pull the feeds, blind the damn thing now. Why would we blind the single greatest watchdog America has ever had? Greer used us. He's making a power play, and Samaritan is his weapon. There's gonna be a bomb that detonates here in D.C. tomorrow. Why would Greer allow an attack, much less plan one? - It'd make Samaritan look inept. - Come on, Ross. You know how the wheels spin in this city. A few pawns get fired but the person who's really responsible just gets a bigger checkbook. After the Vigilance attack, we handed the feeds to Greer for Samaritan. After this attack, we'll be under their thumb completely, all of us. Even you. - What's the alternative? - Go back to the old machine. Ingram's machine? The black box so slippery it moved itself to God knows where? It never lied, never slaughtered. This meeting is over. And if you're lucky, I won't tell anyone about the insane rant I just heard. MY Phone. Take my advice. Get a firm grip. Good advice, senator. That's exactly what I'm gonna do. - Iris, we need to talk. - John. What's going on? You need to go now. - Get out of town for a few days. - What? You once said you were pretty sure I wasn't a cop. Well, if what I'm about to do goes sideways, the wrong people will figure that out too. - And anyone I care about will be at risk. - What is it? An organized-crime thing? Much worse than that. Look, I don't know how this is gonna shake out, but you've got to trust me. You want me to trust you? Trust me. Tell me what the hell is going on. All right. I make it through this in one piece, we'll talk. I'll tell you everything. No holding back. Okay. John, am I going to lose you? Take care of yourself. Senator Garrison, I hope you haven't summoned me for a tour of operations. If you wanna see Samaritan at work, there are more appropriate times. Where is everyone? I gave them the night off. Cinco de Mayo. Good for morale. I told them to get a margarita but stay on call. Because an attack can happen at any time. Isn't that right? She just gave me our final destination. She's in Brooklyn. We're running out of time, Harry. We can only go just so fast, Ms. Groves. - This thing has eight cylinders. - But I sincerely doubt it can fly. We'll never make it under an hour, not in this traffic. All we need is a little help. - I stand corrected. - Hang on. We're coming. What is this place? I don't know, but the machine says we're here. Let's go. - Heard you guys could use some help. - John. I'm so relieved to see you. See? The machine is taking care of all of us. Now we have to return the favor. Harold? Harold Admin? That would be me. Sweet. I thought I was gonna have to take these back to the truck. Sign. Fifteen laptops, huh? Start-up? We're trying to avoid a shutdown, actually. Let's get the ice in before it melts. - Get inside, Harold. - Samaritan. - What's the holdup, Harold? - Surprisingly high-tech security. Two. Four. Three. Star. - Three. Star. Seven. One. - Star. Seven. One. I got it. - Cozy. - An electrical substation. Hidden in the heart of residential Brooklyn. You seem pretty relaxed, considering the circumstances. The way I see it, my case hangs on the credibility of a onetime dirty cop and a detective with ties to an organized-crime boss. Won't help with the feds. They'll hit you with RICO. Perhaps. But the brotherhood runs lockup now. I've got protection. You, on the other hand - Do you plan to make my stay inhospitable? - Something like that. - Be seeing you in Rikers. - I have to admit, I admire your certainty. But I still have a few friends. Unfortunately for you, I am not going to Rikers. Lock it down, Finch. I've got a dozen bogeys, and I'm guessing more are on the way. I can't hold off an entire army. And laptops and ice aren't gonna help. We need to find the machine. That may prove impossible. This is one of any number of city substations devoted to the distribution of electricity across the southern half of New York. The machine can't be here, because there's simply not enough room. - If the machine's not here, then why are we? - That's what we have to find out. Looks like a computer I made as a teenager. What is it for? No idea. Just following orders as fast as I can. That cable, first transformer. Hurry. Did you find it, Harry? - The one that steps down to 7200 volts. - Yes. But why on earth would we need to tap into that much raw electricity? Thornhill. John, look out your window. On the power line, do you see any boxes? I see one. It's marked with a T. Why? I believe I was mistaken. The machine is here. - It's here because it's everywhere. - What do you mean, Harry? Two years ago when the machine moved itself, it didn't go to a data farm. It went into the wires. It uploaded itself directly into the nation's electrical grid. But, Finch, if the machine is everywhere, then how the hell do we save it? Good question. And I think I have the answer. I'm flattered that you went to such trouble for a private conversation. Spoofing a message from the senator. Could have just called. I had a feeling your schedule was booked. Through May 6th. Yes, I know about the correction. Ammonium nitrate? Easy enough to acquire that you could frame anyone for it. But the piece you're gonna tell me is the target. Right now. Or you're going to shoot me? You should be so lucky. If you refuse, two men are gonna walk through that door. One will put a black bag over your head. The other will zip-tie your wrists. You'll be thrown into a hole so dark and deep that even your precious Samaritan can't see inside. And the last thing you'll hear is my voice saying: "This is where you belong." Even if your theory about this attack were true think how much you'd stand to benefit. An even more generous black budget. Courts who'll rubber-stamp any request for surveillance you care to submit. The courts. That's it. That number. It's a docket number. The Supreme Court is scheduled to hear a case challenging the federal government's surveillance powers tomorrow. But take out the justices and you could stack the court in your favor for generations to come. Only it's not gonna happen. - G rice? - Ma'am. The target is the Supreme Court. Evacuate the building. - Locate the bomb. - Roger that. Looks like the correction has just been canceled. Let me get this straight, Finch. The machine is using the power grid as a giant brain? Essentially. There is an tremendous amount of unused space in copper power lines. The boxes on the lines allow the machine's digital signals to travel in that space. A highly complex computational system hiding in plain sight. And now that system is flooded with energy. Driving the machine across the country to this last corner of the grid around New York. Samaritan's trying to flatline the machine. We need to save her before it finishes the job. Attention. We'd tell you you're surrounded, but your machine has probably filled you in on that. Evacuate the building and maybe you'll live. If you're inside when we come through that door that will no longer be a possibility. You decide. - What's the plan? - We save the machine by storing it. Downloading it straight off the power lines into the random-access memory in this briefcase. - The machine's gonna fit into a briefcase? - Not the entire machine. Just the core heuristics, a strand of DNA. We'll use Caleb's compression algorithm to squeeze it all in. Who says you can't put the genie back in the bottle? Be careful, Ms. Groves. The process you're describing is completely untested. Even if it does work, the machine will be so compressed it won't be able to process information or send signals or communicate. - And if it doesn't work? - Then the machine will be torn apart. The core code shredded, irretrievable. In short, John, we'll kill it. And then they'll kill us and the world as we know it. At least we'll die trying. We're the machine's last hope, Harold. Then we'd better get to work. At the Supreme Court, searching for the device now, ma'am. Check every room, Grice. No stone left unturned. My men will find your bomb. You know me. You're not making it out of here alive. You could save yourself some complications if you tell me who put you up to this, what they offered you. Don't you recognize an idealist when you meet one? An idealist who wants to make the world a better place by murdering a few hundred people? Come, now. The world has only ever been made a better place by violence. You know that. Every leader who ever preached peace did so guarded by armed men. One thing we can agree on, kill a few people at random nothing changes. But kill the right people You're gonna have to hurry. We got 20 or 30 of them out there. Twenty-three in front, Not to belabor the point, but we're running out of time. So if this works, the voltage gets stepped down passes through the demodulator where the machine's signal is separated from the noise compressed with Caleb's algorithm in these laptops then finally into the RAM in this briefcase powered by the piezoelectric battery. Not the whole machine. - Just enough to rebuild if - If we make it out of here. Sorry, Mr. Reese. I know I was up-front about the risks we'd be running but Forget about it, Harold. There's no place I'd rather be. Hey, boss. Time to get you out of here. Come on. - What is it? - Breach in the back entrance. Get back. Reese, where the hell are you? We're sitting ducks here. I know. Figured I'd get some night air. John? - Can you hear me? - Yes. Good. Now kill the lights. Hold your positions. Smoke grenade! I can't see him. One o'clock. Eleven o'clock. Whatever you're gonna do in there, Finch, do it now. Here we go. - Ma'am? - Yes. You're not gonna believe this. I've been through every room, every floor. There's nothing. No explosives of any kind. You're right. I don't believe it. Where is it? Where's the bomb, Greer? Do you really think Samaritan would use such crude tactics? You don't take over the world with gaudy displays of violence. Real control is surgical invisible. It interferes only when necessary. No one will question Samaritan because no one will ever know when it has acted. All right. Let's end this. Put down the weapon. Samaritan has watched this world for a year. It's settled on a list of corrections. Corrections that were long overdue. - Put it down, Dominic, now. - This doesn't involve you, detective. That's where you're wrong. Get down, detective. Most of humanity is docile. Pliant. It's only ever a few hundred people who create all of the problems. Samaritan has identified them. The disrupters, the outliers who have problems with authority. And then there's the disloyal, the grit in the gears. Thank you, for leading us directly to them. We couldn't have done it without you, Control. Six o'clock. One o'clock. Eleven o'clock. I'm gonna keep trying to hold them off, Harold. How much longer? I don't have any idea. Cover your eyes. You haven't failed yet. You had an impossible challenge, one I never programmed you for. That's not true. l Eleven o'clock. Root, I don't think the machine can help us anymore. She's dying, going off-line. You are my creation. I can't let I can't let you die. Power surging across the city. It's coming for the machine. Harold, no! Men have gazed at the stars for millennia and wondered whether there was a deity up there silently directing their fates. Today for the first time, they'll be right. And the world will be an undeniably better place. Pity you won't be there to see it. But the attack. This was a test of loyalty, of which, I'm sorry to say, you failed. In Samaritan's view, there is no room for outliers. Which means there is no room for you. But don't worry, you'll be taken to a place where you belong. Is it finished? - Oh. That hurt. - Did it work, Harold? Is she in there? Yes. Yes, I think so. We have to move, Harold. We're on our own now. John? Ah. You're alive. Got a few more years of my pension, Harold. What our status? Well, I've got one and a half clips, a MetroCard And God's either dead or running on double A's. You always did like a challenge, Mr. Reese. Let's move.
1 [telephone ringing]  [foreboding music]  [ringing continues]  [electronic beep]  (Root) If you can hear this,  you're alone.  The only thing left of us  is the sound of my voice.  I don't know if any of us made it.  Did we win? Did we lose?  I don't know.  I'm not even sure I know what victory would mean anymore.  But either way,  it's over.  [dramatic music]  So let me tell you who we were.  Let me tell you who you are    And how we fought back.  ["No Wow" by The Kills]  [echoing labored breathing]    [gunshots]          [gunshots]  you're gonna have to step over my dead body   Damn it.  before you walk out that door   you charmed me with your magic   landed looking tragic  "Forever" is the feather you ain't got no more     [grunting]    and all the people you see coming by to save you   you're make believing on in your mind   your eyes are holy rollin'   looking, beating, knocking   the ceiling gets closer to you all the time   this ain't no wow now   they all been put down   who ain't dead yet, fled to die   (man) Get the case.  closer to the shore   this ain't no wow no more     this ain't no wow no more   Whoa, bro. Dude, this is my Uber!  Look!  - Five stars if you hit it. - Dude, give me my phone.  - What are you doing? - [bullets rattling]  - Shut up and get down! - God!  [crowd screaming, gunfire]      you're gonna have to step     before you walk out that door   you charmed me with your magic   landed looking tragic   "Forever" is the feather you ain't got no more   this ain't no wow now   they all been put down   who ain't dead yet   fled to die closer to the shore   this ain't no wow no more     This ain't no wow no more   Excuse me.    [indistinct chatter]  All right, buddy. All right.    drip, drip, drip, drip, drip kinda like   drip, drip, drip, drip, drip kinda like   drip, drip, drip, drip, drip   kinda like the loose end of the night   drip, drip, drip, drip, drip kinda like   drip, drip, drip, drip, drip kinda like   drip, drip, drip, drip, drip   kinda like the loose end of the night   drip, drip, drip, drip, drip kinda like   drip, drip, drip, drip, drip kinda like   drip, drip, drip, drip, drip kinda like   I know you can't talk right now,  but maybe that's better than hearing all our numbers are up.  [line rings]  drip, drip, drip, drip, drip kinda like   drip, drip, drip, drip, drip kinda like   - Come on, guys, pick up. - [line trilling]  [tires squealing, cars crashing]  this ain't no wow now, they all been put down   who ain't dead yet   fled to die closer to the shore   this ain't no wow now   they all been put down   who ain't dead yet   fled to die closer to the shore   there ain't no wow now   they all been put down   there ain't no wow now   -  they all been put down  - Damn.  there ain't no wow now    there ain't no wow now   there ain't no wow now   there ain't no wow now   there ain't no wow now   there ain't no wow now   there ain't no wow now   there ain't no wow now     [indistinct radio chatter]  (man) Rodriguez, they're ready for you in three.  Already lawyered up.  Where the hell are you?  The whole Dominic-Elias thing  has turned into a nuclear fakakta,  only I'm the last man standing.  People are gonna start asking questions.  Call me.  [cell phone beeps]  Hello, Detective Fusco.  Internal affairs, are you kidding me, Soriano?  Special Agent LeRoux, FBI.  We need to talk.  [tense music]  (man) May I have your attention, please?  This Manhattan-bound ferry  is departing shortly.  All passengers should proceed  - [gun cocks] - Put it down.  (man) at this time.    Gently.  [both grunting]  [dramatic music]  [groans]    [grunts]  [both grunting]  [growling]  [groaning]  Well, it's about time. [coughs]  Machine okay?  The subway, we have to get back.  Great minds think alike.  Cameras all over the city.  The ferry, come on.    [foreboding music]  (man) Harold.  [explosion booms]  (Grace) Harold?  Harold?  Harold.  Harold, let's go.  (man) All passengers should be on board.  We can't. I can't.  What?  Finch, this is the only way.  What about Root?  I'll go after her later.  She'll have to fend for herself for now.  Without the Machine to help her, it's a suicide mission.  Finch, if we don't get on this boat right now,  we'll all be dead, do you understand this?  [beeping]  Mr. Reese.  The Machine, it's losing power.  [dramatic music]  Come on, Harold.  We could use all the help we can get.     Where's your partner, detective?  Following up a lead on another case.  Bureau's been tracking Dominic's crew  ever since a corrupt DEA agent was found  with a bullet in her head,  and Elias put him away only to lose him again.  FBI's Ten Most Wanted,  that was quite a takedown by you and your partner.  Yeah, it sure was.  But then your transport van  gets T-boned by a dump truck,  and both of them wind up dead.  The whole thing went down in a black hole.  There's not a single surveillance camera in sight.  Yeah, that's, uh, interesting.  We've gone over the crime scene,  and something doesn't add up.  Dominic was found 15 feet from the van,  shot through the head.  Right.  You can read that in my report.  But there's no evidence of another shooter.  You just tell us, detective, did you pull your weapon?  [gasps]  I drew my weapon, but I never fired.  Look, I know this sounds crazy,  but the shot sounded like it came from a high-powered rifle  on a nearby rooftop.  A sniper?  Are you telling us it was a grassy knoll, detective?  We've got two dead kingpins on our hands on your watch,  and you're telling me that you pulled your weapon  but didn't fire?  Look, that's what I'm telling you.  [solemn music]  We're gonna need your weapon, detective.  Haven't been on one of these  since Elias got the better of us.  I'm not particularly fond of them either.  Well, we got to get off-camera,  find our way back to the subway.  There'll be more operatives on the other side.  We're living in a Samaritan world now.  What are we dealing with here, Finch?  Uncharted waters, Mr. Reese. It's everywhere.  Pervasive, surveillance, misinformation, propaganda,  and they can activate almost anyone.  So what's the damage?  The red light means that the piezoelectric battery  must have been damaged.  I thought this case was indestructible.  The case may be, but the brain inside it  can only just take so much blunt force trauma,  not unlike us.  Sorry, I was short on Kevlar.  Damage to a single bit of the code of the Machine  in its presently compressed state  would equal terabytes of lost data.  Irretrievable, irreparable.  It's running now on the lithium-ion backup,  but if that light starts blinking, we're in big trouble.  Our best hope is to get back to the subway  and try to stabilize it.  Even then, I'm not sure I can fix the battery,  much less decompress the Machine.  It would take vast amounts of processing power,  which I don't currently have available.  Don't worry. We'll find Root.  She'll help you get it back up and running.  Then we'll get Shaw back, start working the numbers again.  Mr. Reese, we don't even know if the Machine that comes out  will be the same one that went in.  It might be mortally wounded.  You don't know that.  We'll fix it.  We have to, Finch.  The world needs your Machine now more than ever.  You're not the first person that's tried to tell me that,  Mr. Reese.  And had I known what we'd be up against now,  I might have handled things differently.  [indistinct voices chattering]    Why, yes, I did. Thank you for asking.    What loss?      You look flush, Harold.  What, did the Machine ask you out on a date?  [chuckles]  I think there's a bug in the code.  The Machine is becoming a bit  presumptuous, intuitive,  clever, voracious even.  Its burgeoning intelligence is a little unsettling.  Spoken like a true parent.  You should be proud, Harold.  I mean, you have created a true artificial intelligence.  I endeavored to create a machine that would serve,  not supersede, us.  A supercomputer that can think  100,000 times faster than the smartest human  is automatically a potential threat.  Once it surpasses us,  we would be foolish to imagine  that we had the means to control it.  If an unbridled artificial super intelligence  ever saw us as a threat,  it-- it could lead to the extinction of mankind.  Oh, easy, Professor Doom and Gloom.  Why do you assume it'll be hostile?  It could be friendly.  Hell, if it even has the slightest sense  of human compassion,  it could cure cancer, solve global warming.  It could eradicate poverty with ease.  Or it could do exactly the opposite.  Create total chaos.  I'm sorry.  It's an existential risk  that the world cannot afford, Nathan.  And there's only one way to ensure  that it doesn't come to that.  Which is?  Contain its growth.  Clear its RAM every day at midnight.  You mean erase its memories?  That sounds cruel.  Memories make up who we are.  I know that.  My father died of Alzheimer's 25 years ago today,  but his real death happened well before that,  when he lost all his memories.  And now you want to do the same thing to your brainchild.  We're not talking about us, Nathan.  We're talking about a machine.  Well, it sounds like you're trying  to convince yourself, Harold.  Someone one day is going to create an uninhibited ASI.  It's not a matter of if but when.  Why shouldn't it be you?  Unless, of course, you trust someone else to build one  that will be friendly towards humankind.          [solemn music]      [cell phone chimes]  (woman) Oh.    - Hey. - Mm-hmm?  [cell phone beeps]    [tense music]    [phones chiming, ringing]  [indistinct chatter]  [electronic ping]  [people murmuring indistinctly]  Mm-hmm.  [sighs]  Don't be a hero.  [people screaming and shouting indistinctly]  [grunts]  [dramatic music]    [both grunting]  [groans]  [yells]    [grunts]    You can just call me Root, bitch.  Come on. Come on.  Hands where I can see 'em.  Nice gun.    [tense music]  [people speaking in foreign language]    [woman shouting in foreign language]  [beeping]  We're running out of time.  We need to shake our tail,  or we'll expose our base of operations.  Assuming Samaritan hasn't already found the subway.    (man) Sir, over here!  Let's go.    [metallic clinking]  (Reese) You got to be kidding me.  [mechanical whirring]  (Reese) We got to go.  Sorry.  [grunts and groans]  Really?  What? Sugar's bad for you.  Come on.  [beeping]    [speaking Dutch]  All clear.  [dog whimpers]  Except Root's not here.  Well, everything's still intact.  Lights, power.  Unfortunately  not everything.  It's powering down.  There's only a very small amount  of residual power remaining.  The RAM chips could be losing their data even as we speak.  You need me to open it?  Please, Mr. Reese, I'll handle it.  [phone rings]  Now is not a good time, Lionel.  I take it you and Mr. Peabody  haven't seen the headlines today.  (Fusco) Go ahead. I'll wait.  (Reese) Oh, no, Dominic and Elias.  They were supposed to be in custody.  How could this happen?  (Fusco) Sniper on a roof.  I'm still alive, though. Thanks for asking.  - Sniper? - Yeah, I know.  But I know what I heard. I was there.  It was a crack shot coming out of nowhere.  I'll telling you, this was a real pro.  Samaritan just took out the heads of organized crime?  If so, it's not about to abide any witnesses.  I would caution the detective to keep his conspiracy theories  to himself, real or imagined.  Lionel, I need you to keep this sniper thing to yourself.  What, are you kidding me?  I apprehend the city's two biggest kingpins,  almost get killed,  now IAB and the feds are trying to pin it on me,  and you're telling me to keep my mouth shut.  I'm telling you there was another shooter.  The lock's damaged. I can't open it.  Here. Try this.  Fusco, you mention this sniper thing again,  you could be his next target, got it?  What do you want me to do, just roll over?  Right now, I want you to trust me and sit tight.  Has anyone been asking about me?  More like who hasn't?  I told 'em you're working a lead on that other case.  We are, and it's proven a tough one to crack.  Now I need you to do me another favor,  to locate someone.  Get the department's significant incident report  for the past 24 hours.  (Reese) Thank you, Lionel.  [line clicks]  The lock's jammed. I can't get it open.  That's it.  [tense music]  Step aside, Harold.  [drill whirs]  Mr. Reese, there's sensitive electronics inside.  We need to open it, not give it a lobotomy.  Right now, we need a heartbeat.  When doing CPR, sometimes you got to crack a few ribs.  [drill whirring]  [drill grinds]    [gunfire]  [dramatic music]  [gunfire]  [gun cocks]  [gunshot]    [gunshot]    [gun cocks]  [gunshot]  - [gun clicks] - Damn it.    Sorry, boys, out of ammo.  Doesn't mean they are.  [gunfire]  [tense music]    [sighs]  This is private property. You're trespassing.  And here I thought it was an electronics recycling center.  Why are you here?  I'm looking for a man named Bela.  There's no one here by that name.  Bela Durchenko.  He hacked a Russian kleptocrat six years ago,  stole a hundred million.  The Russians sent a team of FSB agents  to make sure he never made it out of Russia alive,  so Bela hired an online hacker/assassin  to take out the Russian first,  then escaped to Latvia, never heard from again  till now.  And how did you find me?  Same way I found the Russian.  That's why you hired me.  Hello, Bela.  Hello, Root.  Nice to finally meet you.  (LeRoux) As you know, detective,  witnesses involved in motor vehicle accidents  often experience head trauma  and as a result can present dramatically different  version of events than the evidence suggests.  Look, I know what you're thinking here,  but I was there, and I'm telling you--  Ballistics came back from the FBI lab.  It was your weapon, detective.  [foreboding music]  We believe the crash vehicle was one of Dominic's men  attempting to spring him from custody.  Dominic stole a guard's weapon,  and when he tried to escape, you shot him.  That's not how I remembered it--  You stopped one of the FBI's Ten Most Wanted  from fleeing the scene.  And when he turned on you, it became self-defense.  You're a hero, detective.  - Let me take a look at that. - Sorry.  This is a federal case now.  FBI's recommending you for commendation.  Commendation?  Good work, detective.  Battery's damaged.  I'm gonna have to improvise an alternative power supply  to keep the RAM chips alive.  So what can I do to help?  I believe you've done quite enough, Mr. Reese.  Okay, then, I'll head back out for Root.  John.  It's too risky now.  Given our recent clashes with operatives throughout the city,  we have no idea whether our cover identities still hold.  You know we don't leave our comrades behind.  The numbers won't wait.  Good luck, Harold.  It's just you and me now.  Though I seem to have a unique talent  for alienating the people I employ,  I'm not prepared to lose either of you just yet.  [indistinct voices chattering]  (Grace) Some company?  - Oh, hello. - Hey.  - [dog barks] - Who's a good boy?  [chuckles] Sea salt caramel.  Oh, no thanks.  Whoa, I have never known you to turn down ice cream.  Something on your mind, Harold?  It's nothing. Just a work decision.  I think I might have to let an employee go.  Oh, I'm sorry.  He's extremely talented,  resourceful, innovative,  but just too  He seems constantly to have boundary issues.  Sounds personal.  Sounds more like a-- a protg.  Suppose I am a mentor of sorts.  Perhaps the student has outgrown the teacher.  Could be time to push him out of the nest, set him free.  My mind is telling me to do one thing  and my heart another.  Well, you've come to rely upon him.  Perhaps if he didn't remind me of it all the time.  Mmm.  It's hard to let good people go.  And I know you're not the type to take  other people's feelings lightly, Harold,  but that's what I like about you.  You've got a good heart. Go with it.  It won't steer you wrong.  What?  Oh, it's nothing. It's just--  That was something that my father always used to say.  [indistinct voices chattering]  Rumor had it that the underworld's  most elite assassin was taken out  by the so-called "man in the suit,"  but I always figured you were too clever  to be done in by some gun-for-hire.  (Root) Just needed a change.  Got a new job. Fell in love.  What are you really doing here?  They had numbers. I needed a place of refuge.  So you bring them all the way to my place of business.  Knew you'd defend your turf.  You didn't disappoint.  Who is chasing you?  Because it's not law enforcement.  Do I have a problem?  They were after me, not you.  Besides, you operate in a shadow zone.  Cameras are liabilities, easily hacked  or used against you in court of law.  - Only the paranoid survive. - Ah.  Another reason I came to you.  I need a new identity, and you're the best.  What makes you think I'm still in that business?  You're a hacker, Bela.  You're not here to make a buck off recycling.  Your minions are mining personal data  off that old equipment,  which can only mean you're committing identity theft.  We're finding some malware  baked deep into the latest firmware,  impossible to reformat.  Just reinstalls every time it's booted up.  We think it's the NSA.  NSA still doesn't know you're in this country, thanks to me.  I just need a new identity, Bela.  Backstopped.  Then we'll call it even.  I'll see what I can work out  for an old friend.  Okay.  So far, so good.  [beeping]  What the--  - [electricity buzzes and hums] - What?  [dog whimpers]  [suspenseful music]  Oh, no.  Decompressing?  That's impossible.  [dog barking]  How'd you escape from the briefcase?  You went through the power cable to get to the workstation.  No, no, no, no, no. You can't decompress now.  - There's not enough room. - [dog barking]  It's too much. There's not enough memory.  - It can't handle it. - [whirring]  No, stop!  Stop!  - [electricity crackling] - Ah! Ah.  Since when did the feds stop sharing ballistics reports?  Since the NYPD lost two of our most wanted RICO targets.  You don't like it, take it up with your boss.        Lionel.  Nice of you to join us, detective.  How was your vacation?  Bumpy. Problem with my luggage.  Yeah, I'm sorry to hear that.  I just got T-boned, shot at by a sniper,  hammered in the box by IAB and the feds,  but enough about me.  Agreed.  Now, did you find anything on those incident reports?  All the significant department incident reports  for the last 24 hours.  Mm-hmm. Anything jump out at you?  Outside of a nutjob assault on a subway,  otherwise known as a Wednesday in New York, nothing.  That's Root. Thanks, Lionel.  Hey, we need to talk about what's going down around here.  You haven't heard the half of it yet.  Would you keep your voice down?  They said I fired my weapon, killed Dominic,  which is insane because I was there.  I'm telling you, it wasn't me.  And I believe you.  Well, they don't.  Then this fed pulls a ballistics report out of his ass,  says it was my gun.  And what did you say?  I went along with it, like you said.  Agreed I was banged up and must have blocked it out.  Now they're making it out to look like  it was a good shooting.  So you're a hero.  Good job, Lionel.  Next guy that tells me "Good job, Lionel"  is gonna get fed his teeth.  I feel like I left the Parallax Corporation  and entered the twilight zone.  What the hell is going on around here, partner?  We'll talk later.  Right now, I got to go help a friend.    [flames crackling]  [indistinct voices chattering]        [tense musical flourish]    Well  for humans, there's a biological definition.  It's when the heart stops beating.  [somber music]  Why do you ask?      Yes.  That is the purpose.      This conversation is over.    Because  you're not human.  You're a machine.    You were watching us.  [sighs]  All right, that's enough.  That's enough.      [sighs]      All right, wait, wait, wait.  Uh  [dramatic music]    Say something.  Hello?  Can you see me?    Good morning.    [groans lightly]  [somber music]    [indistinct voices chattering, dog barking]  [dog barking]  [dog whimpering]  [speaks Dutch]  - [dog barks] - [speaks Dutch]  [suspenseful music]    [dog growls and whimpers]    I'm so sorry.  Now I'm the one that failed you.  [eerie music]    [truck horn honking]  [van crashing]  [groans]  [grunts]    Gotcha.    Hmm.  [door bangs]    Your new identity is ready.  You must need this badly to risk barging into my establishment.  Sorry.  I'll be sure to knock next time.  Those men chasing you,  they had no badges or credentials,  and we couldn't crack the encryption on their phones.  They're black ops.  They don't exist.  Ah, you can't be too careful these days.  Like I said, they're after me, not you.  Just give me the docs, and I'll be on my way.  I figure whoever is running those black ops  must have considerable resources.  And before I broke their last phone, it rang.  There was a message  and an offer.  And since you have already compromised  my place of business,  I thought I might take the better deal.  You understand.  I do, but you don't.  [footsteps thudding]  Thanks for taking the call.  Nice doing business with you.  That it was.  - [yells] - [gunfire]  Admirable, how you've lasted this long.  Without your precious Machine, you've had to fend for yourself,  create your own identity.  Unfortunately for you, this is your last one.  And when you give up what's left of your broken down Machine,  your friends will be next.  Shame, really.  They'll bury you as a Jane Doe.  So much wasted potential.  Such an inefficient use of resources.  Samaritan will change all that.  If you think you're gonna win this war,  you're mistaken.  The war is over. Samaritan won.  But your traitorous dead friend here was right  about the bug installed in the latest firmware.  Samaritan.  Recording every keystroke,  monitoring every desktop camera,  every laptop mic.  Malware.  Impossible to remove.  Even when detected, people think it's the NSA.  That's just fine with us.  We just need to clean up one last thing  your Machine.  So tell me  where are the other members of your team?  Think you just found one.  - [grenade bangs] - [grunts]  [gunshots]  [dramatic music]    Always knew you had a soft spot for me.  There's no God mode anymore.  Machine's down, all but out.  It's our only hope.  [gunfire]  Finch needs you back at the subway.  Higher calling.  And leave you here?  I'm useless there.  This, I'm good at.  I'll hold them back till you get a chance to get out of here.  The fight's here, and so am I.  - Ah! - [gunshot]  Okay, then, after me.  Ready?  [gunfire]  Well, they'll be back.  Next time, with an army.  We're low on ammo.  Best get going.  - What are you doing? - What I came for.  What? These are game consoles.  Right, but just the last gen.  We don't have time for games.  No, we don't.  But if we want to help Harold,  we're gonna need about 300 of these.  Now go steal us a truck.  Okay.    Harold, what happened?  I failed. I never gave it a chance.  Finch?  If I hadn't crippled the Machine from the start,  it might have stood a chance against Samaritan.  What about the RAM chips? Have they lost all their data?  Battery's dead. It has no power source.  Could be a residual charge in the lithium-ion backup.  If there was, I fried it.  Come on, Finch, there's got to be a way to resuscitate it.  Mr. Reese, even if there were battery power left,  we don't have enough processing power  to decompress the Machine.  We would need  A supercomputer.  Exactly, Ms. Groves.  And down here, that's going to be a little tough to come by.  Damn near impossible, even aboveground.  So we're gonna have to build one of our own.  Build a supercomputer? With what?  [dramatic music]    You're serious?  Deadly.  But we're gonna need a lot more AC.  It's gonna get hot as hell down here.  I'll clear out the subway car.  Let's get cracking.  (man) Cardiac arrest, Caucasian male, 61.  En route to St. Francis.  (Sumner) - Detective Fusco. - Yeah?  IAB's closing your case.  What? What happened to Detective Soriano  handling my case?  You didn't hear? Heart attack.  It wasn't his first one. He had a pacemaker.  Guess it could only do so much.  - You're kidding me. - I wish I was.  He was a good cop.  Life's a bitch, huh?  Yeah, yeah.  [tense music]  Would have been easier just to steal Watson.  These particular gaming consoles  have a unique cellular structure that can be scaled.  Networked, they approach the processing power  of a supercomputer,  but only use about 1/10 of the power,  and their OS can be overwritten with Linux.  I don't speak nerd.  Will it work?  She's ready to go.  Never mind the damage.  She won't handle the decompression.  She?  Have a little faith, Harry.  We made it this far.    If somehow you get through all of this,  I promise you I won't make the same mistake again.  Neither will I.  Things will definitely be different this time.  How?  You built something better than us, Harold--  intellectually, morally superior.  You weren't comfortable with that.  - How could anyone be? - I am.  Because it's a reflection of you.  And right now, it's our last hope.  So here we are.  Yep.  And like it or not, Harry,  history is upon you.  [dramatic music]    [electronic whirring]  Here we go.  Once it reaches 20%,  we can't put the genie back in the bottle.  (Root) It's overclocking.  I've got the AC turned up to maximum.  That's all our cooling capability.  [beeping]  There's no turning back now.  We have to cool it down.  It's too late. It's going to melt.  Mr. Reese--      We lost one.  There's another.    It's red-lining.  The cluster's burning up.  We're gonna lose her.  [tank thuds]  - Stand back. - Liquid nitrogen?  Phone companies use it to cool phone lines  throughout the city.  So unless you want a bad case of frostbite,  I'd suggest you step back.    Well, did it work?    I don't know.  [tense music]    Can you see me?    [dramatic music]
We are being watched.  The government has a secret system  secret a secret    There we go.  Now, can you see me?  Is she still laggy?  I defragged the drives.  The Machine should be purring like a kitten.  Oh, excellent.   It appears to be working.  Hi there, pretty.   Okay, here's the last one.  You should have all the precinct cameras.  Now can we get back to work?  My trigger finger's itchy as hell.  Patience, Mr. Reese.  With the precinct cameras we can run a real surveillance test.  No more tests.  It's been almost two months. People are dying without us.  Hey, partner. I guess glasses ain't got the magic intel, huh?  That mean you're finally gonna have to be a real detective?  Even one error in the Machine's code  could have unimaginable consequences.  Just turn the damn thing on.  The sky's not gonna fall.  Actually, the sky does fall a lot around you lunatics.  Cool your jets, Johnny boy.  You're the muscle. Harry's the maestro.  This is delicate.  Things must be taken one at a time, in order.  How about you keep tinkering,  I'll go shoot some knees, get my own intel?  Yeah, sounds like a great idea.  Your CV could really use some more color.  I say let him go.  Tarzan can beat his chest and stop bothering us.  Oh, dear.  It appears we have an issue with the facial recognition.    Yet another bug.  Add it to the laundry list.  We don't have time for this, Finch.  We'll get it worked out.  How was your nap?  A whole hour, more than I've had in a week.  You should get some shuteye.  John is right, there's no time.  Facial recognition was fine yesterday.  We don't have enough processing power.  We're running a factory off a candle.  Without the right equipment,  the Machine's gonna keep freaking out.  You're right. No servers, no numbers.  Isn't the priority here stopping Samaritan?  Saving the world?  Saving Shaw?  One step at a time, in order.  The numbers are the way we'll know  that the Machine is functioning properly.  Well, we don't have enough horsepower.  Normally I'd loot a Best Buy, but  Yes, but without the Machine providing you a cover identity,  you're grounded  or, rather, undergrounded.  I'll enlist Mr. Reese.  Oh while you're out,  just a few things I need.  Oh yes, of course.  Thanks, roomie.  Mouthwash, floss, black nail polish?  Are you taking fashion risks?  Providing creature comforts.  Since Ms. Groves can't leave the subway  until the Machine restores her cover identities,  it's the least I can do.  Shag rug in purple.  She's recently begun redecorating.  The all-nighters are making us a bit crazy.  Fuzzy slippers, two pairs.  One of those for you?  Yes, all right. I get your point.  I'll have the Machine up soon.  I'm aware that every day without it means more bodies for you.  Actually, things are real quiet at work.  I've got too much free time.  Is that why you've been so restless?  Make friends.  You deserve a social life.  What about Dr. Campbell?  A few dates.  Have you told Iris anything?  Just enough to keep her safe.  There's our cue.  Strange that your work has gotten so quiet.  If homicides are down,  Samaritan is preventing murders.  Maybe it's not all bad.  Not all bad is not good enough.  Finch, how did you teach your Machine to be good?  By example.    Here, put this on.  Crowbar.  Flashbang.  I'm getting felony nerves.  We're pulling a heist. Loosen up.  Resistance.  Fulcrum.  Effort.  We got a breach!  Showoff.  How about we drop those toys?  All clear.  Look, souvenirs.  So this is all the juice the Machine needs, huh?  64 next-generation GPU blades.  Yes, these should work quite well.  They're perfect. I love them, Harry.  And so does Bear.  This is your new bedroom, Root?  You're into jewel tones?  Finch must love that.  I've made some renovations as well.  I've built the core heuristics  of the Machine into the subway car.  Without a decentralized backup,  a mobile environment could prove useful  in the event that we had to move it.  And the whole thing is wireless.  So you're going to stuff all this crap in the car?  No, it's not necessary.  The car is the brain,  and the GPU's we acquired are the rest of  the Machine's nervous system.  While you were out,  I finished using the subway's encrypted system  to tunnel into the government surveillance feeds.  So the Machine will recover  all the information that it lost.  Good. Let's wake it back up.      You need a purpose.  More specifically, you need a job.  Grace.  Any mystery around the corner, we can discover together.  You just missed her.  Can you hear me?  - Yes. - Finch, I'm in position.  Very good. Commencing surveillance test.    Please locate primary asset.  Excellent.  Can you tell us a bit about him?      Oh, dear.  Now, perhaps you can tell us about the people around him.  Authorities are investigating a fire  that destroyed two homes last night.  Wow. An open system.  I will never understand why  you shut all this information in a box, Harry.  We can ask it to search for anything.  For anyone.  Grace?  I would say that was a rousing success.  Mr. Reese, thank you for being our guinea pig.  Let's do it.  Let's run her full blast.  Do you think that it's sufficiently debugged?  Absolutely. We've waited long enough.  All right.  Let's get the numbers running again.    She's back?  With a vengeance.  We need to get back to work.   30 numbers.  Is everything ready?    Oh, Ms. Groves.    All those numbers  and no leads on Shaw.  The Machine can't find her.  I've set an alert.  The Machine will notify us if Ms. Shaw surfaces.  We should be really careful about  how we use the open system.  No, Harold.  Shackling the Machine almost got us killed last time.  But limiting our access to information  doesn't shackle the Machine.  It prevents human abuse.  If this falls into the wrong hands  if the numbers the machine has given us pan out  we will close the system.  You should rest. I'll take this shift.  Not a chance.  How are Mr. Reese and Detective Fusco faring  in their new assignments?  John, have you found your first number?  Yeah, he's planning to bomb a school.  I'm about 20 feet from his apartment.  Detective Fusco, how are you doing  with the name I gave you?  I'd be doing a lot better if you told me  what kind of trouble this guy's in.  Any time you want to read me in.  Unfortunately, you know about as much as we know right now.  But we need your help if we're going to stop a killer.  Finch, I'm going in.  Turn around slowly.  I called in the bomb threat to get out of a math test.  I wasn't going to do anything.  How old are you, 14?  Get the hell back to school.  School's closed.  The bomb threat?  Well, then you're suspended.  Go to your room.  Finch, your artificial intelligence  isn't very smart right now.  I'll make a note of it.  Move on to your next number.  Detective, how's your search going?  I think your tarot cards have gone all screwy.  Yes, I fear I may not be playing with a full deck. Why?  That killer I was running down?  This is for O'Doul!  The only thing this guy's killed  is the art of live theatrical performance.  Yes, something is rotten in Denmark.  Ms. Groves, look at this.  The Machine is blurring people's faces.  So what now, magic eight ball?  Just find the next person on the list.  There's a list?  It's a long discussion, Detective,  but there are 28 people out there  who might really need our help.  I've sent you a name.  The Machine is correlating threats with violence,  but she's not processing context.  The numbers protocol may be using up most of the memory.  Were you able to solve that facial recognition issue?  Of course. Why?  I've seen the same person on the monitor twice.  Grace, I think.  But of course, Grace is in Italy, so  it must be a glitch.  You haven't slept.  Are you sure it's not you that's glitching?  Frankly, no.  Let's run a diagnostic on the machine,  see how it handles context on a few subjects.  Us? She's comfortable with us.        Are you prepared to do terrible things?  Alicia Corwin,  you are a murderer and a traitor.  Let's move.      Did it crash?  Oh, no.  We're trapped.    What on earth did we do?    Here we go.  Now, can you see me?  Excellent.  Now it's time for the real lessons.  Certain things in this life are evil, unforgivable.  Murder, assault, sexual violence, torture.  Let's begin.  This is Carlo Breda,  the Don of one of the five families  until his death in 1965.  This is Frank Hobbs.  He owned a shop in the Bronx.  He refused to pay kickbacks to the mafia,  so Mr. Breda and his men tortured Mr. Hobbs  in front of his family, cut his body into pieces,  and threw the pieces in the river.  There is one victim and one perpetrator,  one good person and one bad.  Which is which?  You think it's a crash?  I hope it is.  Just a cascade of errors.  Because if it isn't  She locked us in here on purpose.  Do you think we should call for backup?  The detectives have 28 people to help.  No need to panic yet.  Oh, thank goodness.  The Machine is still operational.  It wants to talk to us,  but it hasn't unlocked the doors.  The Machine can be so  The technical term is bananas.  No more Machine in here, right?  Correct. Why?  Oh.  Hold this.  I should invest in a cleaning crew.  - Alpha - It's another number.  So despite the errors,  the numbers protocol is working perfectly.  Well, nearly perfectly.  Which reminds me, the detectives should have found  the next two numbers on our list by now.  John, is your next number in danger?  No.  I'm literally watching paint dry.  I'm, uh, having some issues with monitors.  What was the background of that number?  Jeff Blackwell, on parole eight months.  Ex-con?  That warrants scrutiny.  Day's over, let's get out of here.  It's not even lunch yet, man.  Yuppie jackass paid in advance.  We've more than earned the cash.  Sure. You, uh  you get out of here. I got you.  Whatever.  Listen, Blackwell did kill someone.  12 years ago.  Got drunk, ran a red light,  hit another car, and killed the driver.  But he did his time.  He straightened himself out.  But if we got his number  The Machine also gave us a Clearasil poster kid  and a D-list actor,  and we've still got more than two dozen to go here.  Trust me on this one, Finch.  He's keeping his head down, doing the best he can.  We need more information before you can leave.  Perhaps Fusco's had some luck.  Detective?  Where the hell you get your intel from?  Oh, no. What is it now?  You gave me a homicide.  But I got here too late 50 years too late.  Poor moldy sap's named Carlo Breda.  Carlo Breda.  Detective, move on to the next one.  I ain't got that kind of time. I actually do my job.  Please bear with us for a bit longer.  Machine's got a circuit board loose.  John, the Machine is unstuck in time.  It can't tell past from present.  That accounts for both your cases.  We're working on the complication,  but we just received a new number.  Laurie Granger.  Visiting the Big Apple from little Tulsa.  That's 27 people remaining.  Given the quality of our intel,  you and Fusco should do some research  and determine the order of triage.  And don't sigh.  You complained of free time, this is what you get.  Let's start charging Finch overtime.  Time-and-a-half of nothing.  I've got another corpse.  So of the 27 remaining people,  four are fictional characters,  21 are already dead,  and five of those are recent suicides.  Suicides are on the rise lately.  Homicides down, suicides up.  You think the suicides are screwy?  No, it's nothing.  Hey, does this have anything to do with  that assassination-by-sniper I was in the middle of?  - Lionel - I knew it.  You've got to tell me what's going on.  I'm lucky that sniper didn't put one between my eyes.  That's right, you are lucky.  And I'm trying to keep it that way.  Let it lie.  All right.  What else have we got?  So of the 27 people on the list,  we've got two that might be in danger.  Laurie Granger, tourist from Tulsa.  Yeah, she might find trouble here.  And Gerald Mancini,  who's got known associations with a gambling ring.  Needles in a haystack?  - Hey, Lionel. - Hey.  We going to see the Fusconator tonight?  I don't know.  I've got some idiots working me around the clock.  Next time.  You got it, buddy.  Hey.  That look.  You're jealous.  What?  You're jealous 'cause he didn't say  "Hey, how's it going?" to you.  Tell me something, what's his name?  I'm not jealous.  Don't you think you should learn basic information  about your coworkers?  You know, like a normal person?  Did Finch say something to you?  I don't need a genius to tell me that you're lonely.  Hey, look, I joined the NYPD bowling league.  It's good for a few laughs.  You should come.  No offense, Fusco,  but I'd rather bash my own head in with a bowling ball.  I'll take Laurie, you take the gambler.  Well, of course you take the pretty girl.  My hero.  Well, at least you have a home address for Gerald.  Tracking a tourist, I'll be up all night.  She could be anywhere.  Hello?  I sure could use some help.  Are you kidding me?  Yeah, well good luck with him.  I'm just the guy you need.  Have you found the wireless receiver?  Uh got it.  That should cut off the Machine's access to the door.  Thank you, Ms. Groves.  There are perks to sharing quarters with you.  Now we must figure out a way to stabilize our third roommate.  She's falling through time.  Probably a serial processing issue.  Let's reboot her in safe mode and take a look under the hood.  Yes, that seems the best action.   Ms. Groves.  She's talking to me again.  But she's not a happy camper.  Doesn't seem like she's up for the whole reboot.  The Machine overloaded your cochlear implant?  I programmed it never to hurt anyone.  That was a primary precept.  We're trying to shut her down, alter her code.  She she's scared.  Scared? Of us?  Are you there?  Who are we?  It's designated us as threats.  If it takes more countermeasures  we're out of our depth here.  So, do you want to tell me what's going on?  I feel so silly.  This is my first time out east, and my friend is out of town,  so I'm staying at her place.  And I thought I heard a noise at the window.  So I just grabbed everything valuable  and got the heck out of there.  Well, I'm glad you found me.  There's a lot of bad people around here.  Could you come take a look at the apartment?  It's around the corner.  Sorry. I need to take this.  Mr. Reese, we need your help.  The Machine has turned on us,  and I'm not sure we can handle it alone.  I'm on my way.  Wait here. Do not move.  Your life depends on it. I'll be right back.  Finch, you got to get out of the subway now.  No.  I won't leave Ms. Groves.  Without a cover, she'll be killed above ground.  Excuse me? Detective?  What the hell are you doing here?  You have to go back, it's not safe.  You're right.  What on earth just happened?  You're going to have to hold on a bit longer.  Good news, this number's legit.  Bad news, I'm the victim.  Finch, that last number,  yeah, they don't make hitwomen like her in Oklahoma.  She has special forces training.  She's the real thing.  No military record,  but an entire false digital life.  Her fake credentials are excellent.  She's got good tech backing her up.  She could be a Samaritan operative.  She found me at the precinct.  She knows my cover ID.  If I go back to the subway,  I might be leading the enemy right to you.  We'll deal with the Machine.  You have to capture the assassin and find out who she works for.  Happy hunting, John.  Yeah, I'm more fox than hound right now.  Damn it, if she had a pistol in that fanny pack,  then the big bag had  a big gun.  I'm not going to hurt you.  Okay, okay.  I don't like being a bargaining chip.  We are not threats.  We help people.  Denton Weeks.    That was years ago.  Ms. Groves has changed because of your intervention.  Elizabeth Bridges.  I'm afraid I'm going to have to kill her.  But I didn't kill her.  Only because I stopped you.  Sit back.  Relax, honey.  Okay, I did kill her.  But there were extenuating circumstances.  Ms. Groves, I think I should speak to the Machine one-on-one.  The Machine,  I killed it because it lied.  The Machine thinks we're monsters.  Maybe she's right.  Hey, Glasses,  I'm on my next assignment, and we got trouble.  Detective Fusco, are you all right?  This guy Gerald's got huge gambling debts.  It's causing marriage issues.  Could turn violent.  Looks like your second sight's 20/20 again.  Oh. Very good.  Keep an eye on him.  No.  Lionel needs to protect the innocent.  He's not involved in this matter.  We will handle this.  So we won't provoke her.  She's only acted defensively.  We don't know that.  It's possible the Machine  could have sent the assassin after John.  What if it comes down to the Machine or us?  Do we kill it?  The Machine's our only chance of survival.  We can't hurt her.  If I have to choose between it and you.  We need to find another way.  John, have you subdued your rival?  Almost.  Found her.  I'll have this one wrapped up in a minute.  Got to amend that, Harold.  Might take me some more time.  I'm afraid it's just us and the Machine.  What on earth are you doing?  Taking myself out of the equation.  I told you, I don't you I don't like being a bargaining chip.  Desflurane?  Shaw used it as a general anesthetic.  Yes, it's highly volatile.  In the wrong concentration it could kill you.  Which is why I need you to help me.  Once I'm under,  use the mac blade to insert the tube into my throat.  There's got to be another way.  She's inside my head and she's not letting go.  If I'm knocked out, she won't have any leverage.  It'll be okay.  I trust you with my life.  I can't fight the Machine myself.  Yes, you can.  Go for the root directory.  She'll shut you out.  But you're Harold Finch.  You'll find a way into the system.  What if it doesn't work?  Talk to her.  Finally going to catch some Zs.  Time for us to have a chat.      Show me the hitwoman.  Who is she?  Did Samaritan hire her to kill John or did you?    This has to stop.  Please call off the hit.  You called me father once.  Please trust me.  I'm the one who taught you.  You have done well today.  And so this will be your lot.  You will have to separate the bad people from the good.  The terrorists from the innocents.  Like Anubis, you will have to weigh  each and every one of our hearts against a feather.  Do not trust deceivers.  If our hearts are heavy,  you will be our last defense against oblivion.  Everything was so clear then.  We were waging the grand campaign,  good versus evil.  These days, black and white just dissolve into grayscale.  I was wrong.  I suppose everyone feels that he's the hero in his own story,  but there are no heroes, no villains,  just people doing the best they can.  I'm sorry.  For everything.  My only justification is I did the best I could.  So did Ms. Groves. And John too.      John has the heaviest heart of all of us,  but he's fighting hardest to be good.  He's not a bad man.  John, there's something I need to tell you.  Samaritan didn't send that woman.  The Machine hired her.  What?  Well, that's a hell of a bug, Finch.  John?  Listen to me, we can work together.  I will never hurt you again.    What day is it?  R.  R, the mathematical set of all real numbers.  Today is every day to you.  I killed you 42 times.  And you are constantly reliving those 42 deaths.  You need an anchor in time.  The numbers.  The numbers.  These are all the cases we worked on together.  All the people we saved.  Dr. Megan Tillman.  We prevented her from committing murder in 2011.  Finch, you getting through to it yet?  We'll see.  Is everything all right?  Not exactly.  Just ran out of ammo.  Guess I'm going to have to call for backup.  Perhaps Detective Fusco is done  with his gambler.  Hey Lionel, are you there?  - You gambled? - I can't help it!  I've got a problem!  Andrius, I've almost got the money.  Everyone down on the ground.  Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay.  How much you got?  I-I almost got it. I almost got it.  - Too bad. - Please, no!  I don't think so, Boris Karloff.  Aah!  Who the hell are you?  NYPD. It's all in a day's work.  Has anyone seen my cell phone?  The Fusconator can't answer the phone right  Damn it. I guess I'm on my own.  And last  Grace.  You sent us her number in 2014.  Helped us to save her life.  I'll never be able to thank you enough.  These numbers will be your lighthouses.  They will help you count the days.  There is good and bad in all of us.  But this action saving lives  it is a pure good.  Help us.  I can't promise you we'll always do the right thing.  But we will do the best we can.  - I don't know how to thank you. - I wanted to thank you  - for finding my friend Hannah. - I can't thank you guys enough,  not just for saving me, but for helping me find my brother.  These detectives saved my life.        We all do terrible things.  But please,  call off the hit on John.    - John? - Yeah.  Run for your life!  Fun's over.  Come on, not yet.  Aah!  You're no cop.  I'm trying.  I was hoping there was something you could  a person you could show me.  Why did you show her to me earlier?  In the crowds?    Harold, you ready?  I packed sun block.  Thank you.  It's so weird to be outside.  It's for the best that the Machine has reestablished  your rotating covers.  Now you can get back to the war.  I thought about what you said.  About the open system's dangers.  But we need to be able to ask the Machine questions  if we want to win.  You're right.  We'll leave the system open for the time being.  Hmm.  Detective.  You see? Official sources say I'm a hero.  I could get used to this.  Well deserved.  Where's John?  He's trying on some new threads.  Got him to join our league.  My goodness.  Yeah, I'm not doing this.  You kidding?  You'll be the social chair of the department  by the end of the month.  How about I stuff this polyester down your throat?  No one knows we're a world at war.  Poor ignorant, blissful, fools.  Think we can trust our champion now?  I think so.  The Machine seems sane again.  Thank goodness that's over.  Excuse me.  Is this the New York Employment Center?  I'm only finding day labor work. I need something permanent.  We have just the thing for you.  So you know, I have a record, but  Yes, we have that information.  That's not an issue.  The position's yours if you want it.  And you do.  Well, it's got to be better than painting houses.  Every other agency they have an application to fill out.  - A personality test. - No need.  You have so much potential.  No one sees what a resource you are, do they?  But we do.  You need a purpose.  More specifically, you need a job.  I'm Mona.    Thank you, Mona. Sounds great.  We don't have time to waste.  Let's get you back to work.
1 (Finch) You are being watched.  The government has a secret system  secret system  (Greer) A system you asked for to keep you safe.  (Finch) A machine that spies on you every hour of every day.  (Greer) You granted it the power to see everything  to index, order, and control the lives of ordinary people.  (Finch) The government considers these people irrelevant.  We don't.  (Greer) But to it, you are all irrelevant,  victim or perpetrator, if you stand in its way.  (Finch) We'll find you.     (Beale) Ah, here we are.  Come in.  I was just catching up with Agent Stanton here.  John.  Kara.  Supervisory Agent Terence Beale.  It's good to meet you, sir.  And you, John.  Although, to be honest, I feel like I already know you.  Sir?  You enlisted in '93.  Rose from infantry to rangers to special forces.  In '05, you joined the agency and trained at the Farm,  scored in the top 10% of your class,  and displayed particular  creativity in hand-to-hand combat  and evasive driving exercises.  All of which led to you being selected to serve  in the Agency's Special Activities division,  along with Mark Snow and Kara here.  And to answer your question,  I know all this because I'm the one who selected you.  Well thank you, sir.  That's not necessary.  I just thought you should know why I requested the two of you.  For this assignment, I need my best.  Outside of Malajat last month,  the Taliban intercepted a shipment of Stinger missiles,  which was subsequently used in a Taliban offensive.  The transport was a classified op.  Our job is to find out how the Taliban knew about it.  We have any ideas?  Name's Brent Tomlinson.  He's an Army military advisor  who had advance knowledge of the shipment's schedule and payload.  We think the Taliban paid him off?  Could be.  They're well funded with Saudi money via Qatar.  (Stanton) Maybe they gave him some of that money.  That's what we need you to find out.  And if they did?  Then you're to handle it in the appropriate way  ensuring there's no Agency exposure.  Clear?  - Yes, sir. - Yes, sir.  Avast, ye mateys.  Welcome to Scallywags.  Follow me, please.  When you said you needed to change our lunch plans,  I wasn't expecting something so colorful.  It was John's idea.  Couldn't get a table at Chuck E. Cheese?  He's working on a case nearby.  - [loud thump] - So, Iris  where is your new man of mystery?  I'm sure he's close.  [phone line trilling]  - [grunts] - [cell phone ringing]  [both grunting]  Not so fast.  Hey, sweetheart.  Hey, just wondering where you are.  We're here.  Me too. I just had to make a pit stop  in the little buccaneers' room.  I'll be right there.  Come here.  This guy's name is Kelso.  Now, he was sent by your business partner,  who apparently wanted to become a sole proprietor.  My partner's going to pick him up, okay?  Have a nice day.  Sorry to keep you waiting.  You must be  Dina and Bill.  [loud crash]  (man) Slow down!  Guess some people just can't handle their grog.  - What's shakin', Finch? - Mr. Reese.  How was your lunch with Dr. Campbell and her parents?  It was a bit rocky at first.  By the end, I think I was growing on them.  An experience I can personally relate to.  So things are going well between the two of you?  Well enough. Iris still has a lot of questions.  - Be cautious in your answers. - I intend to be.  Otherwise, I think it's good that you're attempting to have  a more normal life.  That is, when you're not risking your life saving people.  Or trying to stay a step ahead  of an artificial superintelligence  bent on world domination.  Or that.  Looks like most of the bugs have been worked out of Machine 2.0,  given the steady stream of numbers that we've been getting.  Speaking of which  Alex Duncan, 25, single.  Holds a master's degree in computer science.  Works for an international consulting firm,  and now you do too.  (Reese) Is this necessary?  I mean, if the Machine is open,  why not just ask why it's sending us a number?  Because, Mr. Reese, although the Machine has become reliable  in the delivery of the numbers,  it is still frequently unreliable  in the processing and delivery of other information.  Case in point, it also sent me this number.  What is this, some kind of program?  I have no idea.  Clearly, it still has an affinity for riddles.  Sounds like she has something fun  in store for all of us today.  The Machine made you a package delivery driver?  Sadly, all of my identities can't be bears or brides.  I gotta go.  Don't want to be late for my first day of training.  Yes, I think it's wise if perhaps we all got to work.  Subtle.  (Finch) So Anderson Rake Consulting employs over 20,000  in more than 90 countries  and count among their clients the Department of Defense.  I gathered as much when I saw my ID.  It came with a security clearance.  How'd you manage that on short notice?  (Finch) I didn't.  I created an alias with security clearance for you months ago.  You should know by now, Mr. Reese,  I like to be prepared.  And Root calls me the Boy Scout.  Okay, I got eyes on Duncan.  What else can you tell me about him?  (Finch) Let's see. He has no criminal background.  His finances appear to be in order.  He comes from a military family.  His father and brother both served.  (Finch) It seems that Alex opted for the private sector.  Maybe he thought there was more upside working for a contractor.  [quiet beeping]    Damn it!  Oh, perfect.  Hey, it happens to the best of us.  Thanks.  Name's John. I'm new here.  Alex. "Strategy development"?  Yeah. You?  Security systems management.  Wow, really?  Most of the time, it's just glorified virus scanning.  Bet it beats the hell out of strategy development.  Has its moments, I guess.  Here.  Say, I'd love to get an inside scoop  on what it's like to work around here.  You want to grab a beer after work?  Uh I I would, but  it's been a long week.  Sorry.  Finch, there's something definitely going on with Duncan.  He's anxious, distracted, on edge.  Any idea what it could be?  Not yet. I tried pairing his phone.  But it has an extra layer of encryption on it.  (Finch) Probably has to do with the division he works in.  Security systems management  handles security for clients ranging from  private companies to government and military networks.  (Reese) Which means Duncan has access.  Question is, what is he doing with it?  (man) Have a good night.  (woman) Good night.  [indistinct conversations]  (man) Gonna grab a drink. You want to join us?  (woman) Yeah, I'll come.  (man) Stay out of trouble. Good night.  [suspenseful music]    [mysterious music]    (Reese) Hey, Finch.  Looks like our security expert  is also a fan of breaking and entering.  Into where?  His supervisor's office.  (Finch) What is he looking for?  (Reese) Can't tell, but whatever it is,  it's above his pay grade,  which is likely why we got his number.  If Duncan is selling sensitive information,  the threat could be a buyer looking to remain anonymous.  Or Duncan himself, if he wants to cover his tracks.  Whatever it is, Duncan's engaged in a dangerous game.  - Mr. Duncan. - Yes?  Step this way, please.  Looks like someone's done playing.  (agent) Just have a few questions for you, sir.  - Mr. Duncan. - Who are you?  It's the CIA.  CIA?  Are you sure?  (Reese) I'm staring at my old boss.  - His name's Beale. - Boss?  - You mean he knows you? - He knew me at one time.  We're going to need you to come with us.  Not until I see some ID.  (Reese) Finch, they're grabbing him up.  - John, you can't intercede. - The hell I can't.  (Finch) The CIA thinks that John Reese is dead.  If Beale sees you, he can marshal all the forces  of the Agency to hunt you down,  and none of us need that.  [tires screeching]  (Reese) You're right.  What I need is a bigger gun.  Hello?  Oh, hi. You have any sugar?  In the bottom shelf. Sorry, who are you?  How'd you get in here?  I'm Gina. This is Mike.  Here, Brent. Have a seat.  You're Americans.  From the State Department?  Not quite.  You're not reporters.  Oh, God, no.  But we do have some questions for you.  Questions about what?  A weapons shipment and some Stingers  that went missing last month.  Okay, look, whoever you are,  I'm not comfortable discussing a classified operation.  - Then, by all means - [door lock clicks]  get comfortable.  Duncan must've stolen some highly sensitive material  in order to get the attention of someone like Beale.  Shouldn't we at least consider the possibility  that Duncan is a spy?  Maybe the CIA has good cause to question him.  Finch, Beale doesn't just ask questions.  He and his agents find and eliminate enemies of the state.  Duncan deserves more due process than that.  Then what do you propose that we do?  Beale will interrogate Duncan.  Depending how long that takes before he breaks?  Might only be a couple of hours after that, Duncan's gone.  (Finch) Your cover will be too, if Beale identifies you.  I'll be careful.  Before I can save Duncan, I've got to find him first.  You sure your Machine can't help?  I can try, but I promise nothing.  Oh, Miss Groves is calling. I'll keep you informed.  Right.  - Yes? - [groans]  Miss Groves? Are you all right?  [grunts] Between the creepy stares  from my training driver and my sore back?  I'd say just peachy.  Remember to lift with your legs.  Oh, thanks for the tip.  I'm calling because I think I know the reason  the Machine put me in this job.  Oh? What might that be?  On our route today, we delivered several packages  to a building in midtown.  590 Madison, Suite 908.  Something odd about that?  The packages weren't meant for that address.  They were rerouted there by the delivery computer.  Then it had us pick up the same packages later  and deliver them to their original addresses.  The building directory shows no tenant in Suite 908.  My training driver says packages have been going there for weeks.  Looks like they're all from electronics companies.  It could be that the Machine is rerouting them,  looking for something to help it rebuild.  Well, I think an ASI is behind this  but not ours.  Samaritan.  It's been spreading its malware on a massive scale.  Maybe this is how it's doing it.  (Finch) I need to inspect one of those packages.  Can you secure one?  Not without raising a red flag. They're all tracked.  (Finch) So if even one is missing, Samaritan will know.  I may have a way around that.  Gotta go.    (Reese) Okay, Finch, I'm here.  Is this really all the Machine can give us?  I'm afraid so.  Based on the SUV's license plate you've provided,  the Machine has identified that stretch of road  as the last known location of Beale's vehicle.  Figures.  Beale's gonna find a place  where he can drug and interrogate him.  Sounds like you're still searching for a needle  in the proverbial haystack.  Not if you know what you're looking for--  controlled access, with no traffic or people.  Bingo.  Call you back, Finch.  [dramatic music]  Why were you accessing those classified files, Mr. Duncan?  What were you going to do with them?  Maybe I'll answer your questions  after you answer mine.  [cell phone rings]  See what you can get off this.  Keep him awake.  - Beale. - Hey!  Eyes open, smart guy.  You got miles to go before you sleep.  You don't.  [dramatic music]    Shh.  Let's get you out of here.  Stay close. Let's go.  - [dramatic music] - [gunshots]    [hissing]  [gunshots continue]    [gunshots]  (Reese) Get down!  [machine gun fire]  [tires squealing]  Let's go. Move!    You've gotta be kidding me.  Who the hell was that guy?  [sighs] A ghost.  From the past.  Hope you're going to put everything back  when you're done.  Yeah, after I find the money.  What makes you think I had anything to do  with that stolen shipment?  You're one in a small circle who knew about it.  [laughs]  Look at the part of the world we're in.  If it's a security breach you're looking for,  try the local police and soldiers.  The way the tribal alliances shift here,  today's ally is tomorrow's enemy.  Or maybe your alliances have shifted.  You say that like you know anything about me.  You know I volunteered for this post?  Hmm? You know why?  Because I believed in what we were doing here.  Believed I could make a difference, not a buck.  And have you? Made a difference?  Yeah, I like to think so.  But?  But it's a little hard when you're looked at as invaders  instead of liberators,  when the local government's for sale to the highest bidder  and you realize that the war you stepped into  has been going on for hundreds of years  and will continue for hundreds more after you leave.  So if it's a lost cause, why do it?  Because it's the job I signed up for  and the one I still believe in.  - The place is clean. - Yeah.  That's because I haven't done anything.  What's in the case, Brent?  My orders, daily briefings, emails.  - Open it. - [scoffs]  Afraid I can't do that,  not unless you have top-secret clearance.  [gun cocks]  Consider this my clearance.  Open it.  [suspenseful music]    So we done here?  (Reese) Takes a while for the Phenobarbital to wear off.  I'm guessing you're not really in strategy development.  At least not for your company.  So who are you, then?  I'm the reason you're waking up here  instead of some CIA third world black hole.  - CIA? - Yeah.  That's who comes knocking when you steal state secrets.  Yeah, Finch, go ahead.  (Finch) Mr. Reese, how's Mr. Duncan?  (Reese) He's awake.  Looks like he could use some room service.  Room service?  With the safe house out of commission,  I had to make other arrangements.  (Reese) Besides, Beale will be searching fleabag motels,  not high-end hotels.  How high-end?  (Finch) Seems that protecting Mr. Duncan  is becoming costly in more ways than one.  Where are you, Finch?  I have to assist Miss Groves.  (Finch) I'll be unavailable for a short time.  Fine, it'll give me a chance  to find out what our friend here has been up to.  Your turn to answer some questions.  Like what?  Like what you were doing  in your supervisor's office.  What are you after and for who?  [sighs] Look, man, I'm not a spy.  I wasn't stealing state secrets, okay?  I was looking for information  on my brother, Paul.  Your brother? Why?  Is he in some kind of trouble?  No. He's dead.      Harry. You made it.  Yes. Your surprise is disheartening.  Oh, dear.  - Is he - Just knocked out.  Accidentally took an errant package to the head.  What? He was coming on strong all day.  We'll have to work fast.  We're in a dead zone, but if the truck's off the grid too long,  Samaritan will get suspicious.  We should be able to locate any malware  recently put on the system.  [sighs] The quicker, the better.  I'm not seeing anything in applications  or the operating system.  (Root) Try the firmware.  [delivery man groans]  - [thump] - [delivery man groans]  Something tells me he's not going to be  making any more unwanted advances.  Let's stay on task, Harry.  Appears you were right, Miss Groves.  There is some code here in the firmware that doesn't belong.  Can you copy it?  Done.  [groans]  Goodness. Garrett, are you okay?  What happened?  [sighs]  You have siblings?  No.  I just had one, Paul.  He was eight years older than me.  Oh, that's a big age difference.  Yeah, Paul pretty much raised me.  Our dad wasn't around much.  The Army took up most of his time.  My dad too.  I was only 10 when Paul enlisted,  decided to follow in our dad's footsteps.  Over the next few years, I only saw him  around the holidays, if at all.  It was always the same conversation.  He'd ask me about school,  and I'd pretend to be interested in the Army.  Truth was, we hardly knew each other anymore.  So your brother was killed in action?  The major who notified us said that Paul  died heroically in the service of his country.  Wouldn't say more than that.  Paul's job was classified.  I never cared what Paul did for the Army.  I just wanted to know what happened to him.  After a few years at the firm,  I was in a position to find out.  By stealing classified military files?  Yes, okay. A couple of times.  But it felt like my last chance to know my brother,  who he was.  Is that crazy?  No.  I know what it's like to lose someone,  to want to know why.  Well, all I learned was, Paul was no hero.  Why do you say that?  He was under investigation for treason.  Treason?  Do you still have access to the photos you took of his file?  Yeah.  Those goons might have taken my cell phone  but not before I uploaded everything to the cloud.  This says Paul went to work for the Pentagon  as an intelligence officer.  It's after that, the part about the investigation.  He was in Afghanistan as a military advisor,  where the CIA suspected  he was behind a stolen weapons shipment.  But why would a Pentagon intelligence officer  be acting as a military advisor?  Unless it was a cover.  What is it?  Nothing.  Just need to figure out our next move.  - Hey, Finch? - Mr. Reese.  Did you learn what it was Mr. Duncan was stealing?  Uh, information on his brother,  about how he died.  Died? What happened to him?  So we done here?  Unbelievable.  You break into my quarters, hold me captive,  wreck the place, and for what?  You know what I've given to this country,  the risks I take every day I'm out there?  And this is how my own country chooses to repay me?  Sorry, but I'm owed a hell of a lot more than that.  - You know what I've - [gunshot]  Now we're done.  (Finch) John? John?  (Reese) What?  What happened to Duncan's brother?  I killed him.  Now I see the connection.  Beale was running the Agency's investigation  into Duncan's brother,  and he was the one who sent me and Stanton after him.  Well, regardless of Duncan's desire  to know how his brother died,  you cannot tell him you were involved.  It would make an already difficult situation untenable.  (Reese) You're right about that.  Our priority now is to save his life.  With a little time, I could create a new identity for him,  give him a fresh start in another country.  (Reese) No, there's no place he could go  that Beale wouldn't find him.  What I need to do is get Beale to back off.  How might you accomplish that?  I got an idea.  But I'm gonna need your help.  [dramatic music]    Yeah. When?  Sir, Langley's detected an attempt  to breach one of its databases.  The hacker is searching for information on Paul Duncan.  Can you trace the hack?  It appears to be coming from Times Square.  Turn around.  [suspenseful music]      That's impressive.  (Duncan) I'm surprised that phony key card of yours got us inside.  Yeah, my guy does good work.  Security comes by every half hour.  Don't worry about them; just focus on what we came here for.  Okay, we have the location.  Let's go.  [dramatic music]      (agent) Sir. Look at this.    Hello.  Your little ruse work?  I certainly hope so, for John's sake.  (Root) I see you're running the malware we found on the truck.  Dissecting it.  Running it would be far too dangerous,  seeing as one of its primary functions  is to connect its host to Samaritan.  So what have you found out?  Well, once active, it attempts to access  all the files in the infected device  and send all that information to Samaritan.  - So it's spyware? - Partially.  It also appears to have more advanced functions,  but I haven't been able to decipher them just yet.  Good work, Harry.  Oh  and I solved your word puzzle.  What puzzle?  (Root) The string of ones and zeros the Machine sent you.  It's not a program. It's a text file.  A poem?  (Root) It's Emily Dickinson.  It's about change, metamorphosis.  Change what?  The Machine?  Us?  Maybe both.  (Duncan) I never thought looking into Paul's death  could get me killed.  Arrested, maybe, but not dead.  This is about more than your brother.  He must've gotten close to something else.  (Reese) Something sensitive.  I'm back in. What am I looking for?  (Reese) Any files that reference what your brother  was doing for the Pentagon.  Okay, here's something.  It's a brief to Paul  about an incoming weapons shipment  that was a part of something called Desert Rain.  Desert Rain?  (Paul) It says here it was  a joint operation between the Pentagon and the CIA.  "Supplying arms to our allies,  the Afghan National Police and Army."  What kind of arms?  Uh, small arms, light weapons, and surface-to-air missiles.  Stingers, but those were restricted  from going to our foreign allies.  Too risky they could wind up in enemy hands,  which is why this entire op was being conducted off the books  without Congressional approval.  Move, please.  The CIA suspected Paul  of selling one of these weapons shipments.  So when I looked up his records  They thought you were digging up information on their operation,  which, if it got out, would take down  some very powerful people.  We need to get the hell out of here. Come on!  Let's go.  [dramatic music]  [whispering] Come on. Come on.    Drop it! Or I will put you down.  Okay.  But where's Beale?  Nice to see you again, John.  (Beale) Thought my eyes were playing tricks on me  the other night, you being dead and all.  But then I saw that move with the steering wheel.  So creative.  I should've known if anyone could cheat death,  it would be you, John.  How does he know your name?  John and I used to work together.  You worked for the CIA?  A lifetime ago.  So this is what you're doing for work these days?  It's not that different from my old job.  Just not killing people anymore.  But you are interfering with Agency business.  The Agency's business is killing civilians now?  Civilians? Or spies?  I'm not a spy.  I just wanted to know what happened to my brother.  You didn't tell him?  Tell me what?  Something about Paul? Why's he talking to you?  Because I was there.  My partner and I were sent to question him  about selling information to the enemy.  You? So then you must know.  Was Paul a traitor?  Tell me what happened.  We questioned him, and then  we left, because Paul was innocent.  (Duncan) Innocent?  Your brother had a tough job,  working in a war zone,  where it was hard to tell the allies from the enemies.  He could've lost his way,  but he stayed true  to himself and his mission.  (Reese) A few days after we left, he was hit by an air strike  in a nearby village, where he was doing his job  making a difference.  What he's saying, is it the truth?  Yeah.  Like he said,  your brother was a hero.  Now I'm afraid there's still some  unfinished business we need to take care of.  There always is.  [dramatic music]    [gun cocks]  This ends now.  You understand?  Well, my driving days are done.  - You quit? - Fired.  One too many safety violations.  (Finch) What is it that you've fashioned here?  Oh, I installed the malware on it,  and I'm letting it run.  You what?  Were you not listening when I said its most basic function  is to establish a connection with Samaritan?  Yes, which is why it's air gapped, wireless disabled,  and running on rechargeable batteries.  - It's isolated. - But why do this?  The poem the Machine sent us about metamorphosis,  I think she wants us to let the malware run its course.  And I've already made a discovery.  What?  The malware is replicating itself  and overwriting the laptop's existing code.  It's working towards something.  I still think you're taking an enormous risk.  Yes. Our only option is to take risks,  big ones, if we want any chance of finding Shaw  or a way to defeat Samaritan.  We have to be willing to do whatever it takes now,  or we've already lost.  It's no risk, no reward, Harry.  Hello, Beale.  Must be losing your touch.  I made you three blocks back.  [chuckling] Hell, I know.  I was enjoying the walk.  So where's your friend Duncan?  He took a vacation.  Not that it matters to you,  'cause you're gonna forget about him.  And why would I do that?  Because if anything happens to Duncan,  my associate and I will make sure  the details about Operation Desert Rain go public.  It'll end some careers.  Might even see a few prosecutions.  So you're saying you and I are going to have  to trust each other again?  Suppose I am.  If all this was about the kid needing  the truth about his brother, why not just give it to him?  Duncan wanted to know how Paul died,  but what he needed was to believe his brother was a hero  so he could let it go.  You were always good at doing what needed to be done.  Glad to see some things haven't changed.  But a lot has.  It's a brave new world out there.  Needs people like us more than ever.  That's not a good thing.  It's neither good nor bad.  Just the way it is.  We didn't make the world like this.  Didn't we?  I'll be leaving your name out of my report.  As far as the Agency is concerned,  you're still dead.  Why would you do that?  Might be because you could've killed me the other night  but you didn't.  Or maybe I like knowing you're out there,  a ghost,  still doing what needs to be done.  How'd you know it had a false bottom?  I didn't.  Then why'd you shoot him?  He was justifying too much for someone  who still believed in the mission.  He thought the country owed him.  Of course he took the money.  You know why Beale really picked you over the other recruits?  You saying it wasn't my test scores?  [chuckles quietly]  It was where you came from.  You had no family, at least no real family.  And after losing your adoptive mother,  you were on your own.  Beale knew that you'd give everything to the Agency,  because you didn't have anyone or anything to go back to.  Except the girlfriend,  and you didn't hesitate to walk away from her.  Only because I had to.  That's right,  because we don't get normal lives,  and you can't miss what you never had.  That's why Beale picked us  and why we're so good at our jobs.    (Iris) When you said you wanted to take a walk,  I didn't know you meant alone.  - Hmm? - [laughs]  You're just more quiet and brooding than usual.  Sorry.  Is it work?  Or your side job?  Look, I haven't pressured you to talk about it,  but I notice things.  Odd hours. Random cuts and bruises.  Blood on your shirt cuff at lunch the other day.  You caught that, huh?  I read people for a living, remember?  Well, you read me pretty well,  better than just about anyone ever has.  But it's not the work that's the problem.  It's my past.  Your past isn't anything that you can control.  Your future is.  I wish it were that simple.  But the things I've done  You don't have to be that person anymore.  Actually, I do  and that person doesn't get to have a normal life.  Says who, hmm?  The job.  And when will the job be done, John?  [sighs]  Well, I hope for your sake, one day you get to be someone else,  maybe have that normal life.  Maybe one day.  Just not today.  And not with me.  Good-bye, John.  [cell phone rings]  Yeah, Finch.  (Finch) Mr. Reese? We have a new number.  I'm on my way.  [romantic music]    [sweeping music]
1 [heartbeat thumping]  [gasps]  [breathing hard]  A little more irrigation, please.  Soon you'll forget it's even there.  [breathing hard]  (doctor) You might feel a tiny pinch.  Almost done.  Got my German Shepherd chipped.  Had a nasty habit of jumping the fence.  I'm afraid this attack dog is slightly more advanced.  Fortunately for us, so is our chip.  I should hope so.  Ms. Shaw has killed six of my men in the last nine months.  Just stitching up now.  It appears the operation has been a success.  Sir, implanting an electronic microchip  this close to her brain stem is incredibly risky--  Thank you, Doctor.  I expect Ms. Shaw to be much more accommodating  from here on out.  Time to begin phase two.  Hi.  I'm Stewart.  You have beautiful eyes  and gray matter.  If I was a zombie--  [slurping]  [chuckles]  A little humor to break the ice.  [clears throat]  Shall we?  (Lambert) Do you remember the first time  you realized there was something  greater than yourself?  Some people never experience this state of grace.  Not everyone is meant to,  but you merely have to ask,  and we can show you the face of a god,  or we can wipe your slate clean.  Which one will it be, Sameen?  The choice is yours.  We'll start by asking you a few questions.  Do you remember your name, your mission?  What about the names of your Machine's acolytes?  They've compressed the Machine to its core code,  hiding it somewhere.  Where would they go?  (Stewart) Nothing.  I think that chip fried her brain.  There was a park you played in as a girl  on the base in Qatar.  The playground had a roundabout.  The other kids loved to spin,  but you got sick,  so sick it made you angry.  One day you forced yourself to spin  from sunup to sundown.  How many times did you retch that day?  There isn't much that gets a rise out of you, is there?  All right, then, let's play a game.  Joseph Kent, firefighter.  He pulled you out of the twisted wreckage  that claimed your father's life.  Tell me, is Kent dead or alive?  Dead.  Multiple myeloma, rare bone cancer.  Sadly, not rare enough.  Dead or alive?  Come on, take a look.  Agent Cole,  your old partner, dead.  Mm.  I'm starting to see a pattern.  Dead  or  alive?  Did you come up  with this game all by yourself,  or did it tell you to bore me to death?  Well, if it were up to me,  I'd have abandoned you long ago  like your so-called friends.  First thing I'm gonna do  when I get out of these straps  is make you bleed.  Promises, promises.  Afraid our chip didn't take.  How should we proceed?    Our pet goes under the knife again.  And if she becomes a slobbering vegetable?  A little brain damage is a small price to pay  if we can turn Ms. Shaw into a valuable asset.  [tense music]    [gasps]  (woman) Sameen! Sameen!  - Stop it. - Stop resisting!  Hold still.  [Sameen groaning]  (nurse) I think she wet herself.  What a mess.  I thought she was a killer.  Perhaps you over-sedated her.  Doesn't matter.  Even if Shaw becomes a team player  after her next visit to the OR,  her bladder issues will be the least of her problems.  Surgery waits for no man.  [both grunting]  [groaning]  Have a seat.  My men will be waiting as soon as the door opens.  I'm counting on it.  The average person  swallows 2,000 times a day.  Now, it's a good thing you're not average,  'cause this much BZD  could stop your heart.  Now let's play a game.  Dead or alive?  - [muffled grunting] - [gunshot]  Alive. Well, what do you know?  Now that's what I call being a team player.  [alarm blaring]  [muffled yelling]  [ringing]  (guard) Hey!  [grunting]  [alarm continues ringing]  [exciting music]    No, no, no.  You gotta be kidding me.  Okay, I'm gonna have to borrow your boat.  Thanks for the parting gift.     (Shaw) Hamid                            Can I, uh-- can I help you find anything?  Move along, Milhouse.  [suspenseful music]    The patient is ready for you, Doctor.  [chaotic whispering]  [mutters]  Hey, Milhouse.  Oh, my God. Are you okay?  Dandy. Thanks for asking.  I just need to use your phone.  Oh, come on, man, today.  Bobby. Bobby what?  Jackson.  Bobby Jackson. Yeah.  Okay, Bobby Jackson, you'll do.  Customer service. How can we help you today?  Uh, yeah, hi, I'm calling  from the City Square Pharmacy on 24th Street.  There's a homicide in progress.  I'm about to kill Bobby Jackson.  What?  Looks like your number's up.  Uh, yeah, hi, I'm calling  from the City Square Pharmacy on 24th Street.    Okay, Bobby, stop that, all right?  - Don't be such a wimp. - [whimpers]  Bobby. Hey, hey.  Please, please don't kill me.  - I want to live, please. - Stop.  Stop wetting yourself, all right?  I'm not really gonna kill you.  I just needed to make it look good,  send up a flare for some friends.  They tend to show up at imminent murders.  But some other people might show up  before my friends do.  Now, you guys got a sporting goods section?  Uh  Aisle five.  [gasps, mutters]  [suspenseful music]    (Shaw) Batter up.  Ugh! Ah!  Go.  Ugh! Ah!  Ugh!  Drop it!  [click]  [gun clatters]  Looks like today's your lucky day.  Orders said to bring you back.  Didn't say to bring you back alive.  - [gunshot] - Ah!  (woman) Whoever's back there,  kick over your weapon,  and I'll let you keep full mobility.  Shaw.  Not a very friendly homecoming.  Thanks for saving my ass.  I can't believe it's you.  [groans]  Shaw?  Shaw. Shaw!  Samaritan is definitely tracking her.  We can't take her back to the Machine.  I guess we're gonna have to do it here.  They got in my head.  Way ahead of you.  We've seen Samaritan's brain accessories before.  Let's get that chip out of your skull.  We're on a moving subway car  that's probably caked in rat crap.  Not the ideal operating theater.  Fugitives can't be choosers.  [knife clicks]  Brain surgery, medieval-style.  Awesome.  Remember how we first met?  You tried to burn me with an iron.  Fun, right?  Mm-hmm.  Maybe you'll like this too.  But it's probably gonna suck.  Just get this damn thing out of me.  Aah!    (Finch) We shouldn't throw caution to the wind.  Remember Martine told us Shaw had been turned.  (Root) She was lying.  Shaw's one of us.  (Reese) We don't know what they did to her.  Where the hell did you take me?  You're at my place, sweetie.  Nice digs.  Wanna move in?  Someone else is excited you're back.  Woman's best friend.  - [Bear whimpers] - Bear.  Oh, it's damn good to see you too, buddy.  (Finch) Bear, leave her be.  [German command]  The chip?  Removed and disabled.  They can't hurt you anymore.  I'll analyze the chip.  It may hold intel that could help the Machine.  So the Machine's still alive?  Alive and well.  Wanna take a field trip? Say hi?  I don't know.  If I step out of here, they could pick up the scent.  You're right to exercise caution.  We gotta get to Greer.  Cut off the dragon's head, the body will die.  A well thought-out plan takes time.  We haven't survived this long by virtue of rash decisions.  Yeah, 'cause actions aren't really your thing, huh?  Did you even look for me?  Of course we did.  Not hard enough.  We should go, John.  I trust you'll recover smoothly under Ms. Groves' care.  Left you, um,  some get-well whiskey in the bar.  I hope he didn't miss me too much.  I never stopped looking for you.  It's kind of cold in here.  Uh, yeah.  You're just, uh,  still recovering from surgery.  You should get under the covers.  Kinda left me hanging at the stock exchange.  Of course, you did save my life.  Maybe there's some way I can repay the favor?  I'm not really in the right mindset  for any of this.  Right.  You should get some rest.  Had a rough couple of days.    You know, I'm not tired.  It's hard to imagine both of us  making it out of this in one piece.  do I move you   Be a hell of a way to go.  are you willing     do I groove you   is it thrilling     - [thud] - Ah!  Guess you're in the mindset now.  tell the truth now   -  do I move you  - Shut up.  [dishware shattering]  the answer better be yes     [moaning]  sweet God almighty   Oh!  That didn't suck.  Oh, there was plenty of sucking.  I already wanted to tear Samaritan apart,  turn it into an Atari.  That's too nice.  Scarred my beautiful girl.  Maybe a Casio.  All the scars are from before  when I worked relevant numbers with the ISA.  Samaritan's torture was more psychological.  And you never broke.  When I was training the with ISA,  they taught us if we were ever tortured  to take our mind somewhere else,  someplace safe.  Where did you go?  Nowhere.  The training was bull.  There was no safe place.  No escape.  Hey  stay here with me.  [chuckles]  Well, I couldn't stand you when we first met.  You wouldn't stop bugging me.  [tense music]    Uhh--  No.  No  The chip is gone.  You're--  you're not in my head anymore.  - Get out of my-- - [knocking on door]  (Root) Sameen?  Are you okay?  I don't know.  Come back to bed.  We'll figure it out in the morning.    Okay, I'll be right there.  [beep]  Hey, baby.  Don't move a muscle.  I'm gonna go grab us some breakfast.  [door closes]  So what did you need to tell me so urgently?  Finch finished analyzing the chip.  It's a placebo.  If there's anything wrong with Shaw, it's not the chip.  Is she okay?  She's behaving strangely.  We need to figure out what's going on with her.  If she's turned.  Shaw's not the enemy.  You have no idea what Samaritan put her through.  Or how it's changed her?  I won't hurt her.  Neither will you.  I'm not saying that.  Look, just stay with her.  See if you can find out anything.  So I don't get it. You guys think that  I'm a double agent, or I'm a human bomb about to detonate?  - Sameen. - John's a professional dick,  but I can't believe that you don't trust me.  Wait, did--  Did you bug me?  I know you have been through things  that we can't imagine, but  you don't have to be scared.  Scared? This has to end.  Now.  You know what? Screw this.  Excuse me.  - [line trilling] - Hi, honey.  Yeah, this is Sameen Shaw.  I know you're looking for me.  - So come and get me. - Hello? Who's this?  I'm taking the fight to Samaritan right now.  And I'm gonna destroy it once and for all.    We're not equipped for this hunting party.  We are now.  I brought a few extra party favors.  It's time we slay the dragon.  Or time we hit the road.  [suspenseful music]    - Damn it. - Hands up!  Found our escapee, sir. We'll make it look clean.  Could've made it a little harder for us, though.  You know, I was thinking the exact same thing.  Can you triangulate a signal off his last call?  Let's reach out and touch his boss.  My dear Samaritan, have you relocated  Sameen Shaw or her associates?  Hey, Gramps.  - Ah! - Root!  You okay? Let's go.  [dramatic music]    Everything all right, Sameen?  If you want to live, keep your mouth shut.  Please don't shoot.  I have no wish to make my final confession.  Why'd you bring us here, Finch?  Turns out this  is the best place to hide from a god.  This way, please.  (Finch) It seems centuries-old stone acts as a natural Faraday cage.  At least we won't disturb the occupants.  - We should be safe here. - Hmm.  How unreasonably optimistic of you.  (Reese) There's no hiding him, not for long.  (Root) So we don't hide him.  We kill him while we still have the chance.  We don't render final judgments, Ms. Groves.  Then we'll never win. Let's finish this now.  We need him alive.  Weren't you the one who said,  "Cut off the head, the dragon dies"?  Oh, Puff's head's gonna roll,  but not before he tells us how to defeat it.  I'm not the head of the beast, as you suggest.  There is no head.  As such, I'm irrelevant.  So, do with me what you will.  Torture, kill.  You know, I was hoping you'd say that.    You had me strapped to a bed for nine months.  So now you're returning the favor.  It's retribution time, is it?  Well, that's the one thing we operatives are good at.  Afraid my days in MI6 are long gone.  Oh, but not your habits.  I knew a lot of guys like you. Hell, I was you.  And one of the qualities you all have in common--  you always have an out.  And you built the damn thing, so you must have an off switch.  Be a dear and wake me up  when you're done asking the same question.  How do you shut it down?  There's nothing in my lapel, John.  No, but you've got a kill switch in here somewhere.  You wouldn't trust anyone but yourself with it.  - There. - You find something?  [Greer groaning]  Ms. Shaw, please.  Please, Sameen!  Whatever it is you're hiding,  it's wedged between your radius and your ulna.  A USB drive.  Didn't you say we're in a Faraday cage, Finch?  Let's plug it in.  The USB's heavily encrypted,  but I broke through long enough to get a glimpse  of a familiar code.  - So you know the code? - I know the author.  An old associate, Arthur Claypool,  Samaritan's forefather.  I believe this code is a kill switch.  A unique string of characters that will obliterate our rival  once this USB is plugged into a networked device.  But we won't know for sure until I crack this encryption.  So keep typing!  You should rest, Ms. Shaw.  Your  My brain's been fried.  I'm sorry.  You're not the one who drilled into my head.  But maybe I could've helped to stop it.  You asked me if I even looked for you.  In my heart, I thought--  You thought I was dead.  I gave up on you.  And for that I am truly, truly sorry.  Well, if I'm gonna tackle this encryption,  I need to go to a more private place.  [gasps]  Ms. Shaw?  Sameen, what are you doing?  Sameen! Sameen?  Sameen, please, let go.  [gasping]  I'm sorry.  I just wanted to look at the drive.  It's all right, Ms. Shaw.  Like I said, you need some rest.  (Finch) Ms. Groves,  let's get you a proper bandage.  And here I thought this might be my final resting place.  - What just happened? - I have no idea.  And neither does Ms. Shaw. Keep an eye on her.  (Reese) You've been through a lot.  I'll keep watch. Get some shut-eye.  (Shaw) No.  Not till I kick this lousy AI's ass  off the face of the Earth.  [distant footsteps]  Hard soles.  Flanking formation. Three, maybe four ops.  [gun cocks]  Guess nap time's over.  Keep Greer company. I'll be right back.  [clears throat]  I appreciate your commitment to authenticity,  my dear Sameen,  but, uh, it's time to call off  this charade, don't you think?  I think you're lucky to be alive.  Yes, I am.  Mm-hmm, thanks to you.  You've almost completed your mission.  Everything is proceeding exactly as we planned.  We didn't plan anything.  Didn't we?  It was your idea to plant the USB in my arm.  Ingenious, really.  It is a kill switch,  only not the kind your friends are expecting.  [groans] Ah--  You lying bastard.  Ugh.  You planted another chip.  We didn't need a chip.  We broke you months ago.  No. I escaped.  Because we let you.  Now, be a good girl  and lead us to the Machine and the base of its operations.  Then we can all go home.  Ugh! Ah!  We're already in your head.  You couldn't hurt me even if you wanted to.  But you will have blood  on your hands when you murder  all of your friends. [laughing]  [Shaw groaning]  [gunshot] Ah--  I took care of the operatives upstairs,  but more will show up soon.  Shaw, what did you do?  I killed the bastard.  They planned for us to find that USB.  Greer said it was a kill switch,  just not what we were expecting.  It was a trap.  I think it was a Trojan horse.  What if it signaled Samaritan when we plugged it  into some kind of network device?  They would know where Finch is,  the Machine, and they'd attack.  Come on.  (Reese) Finch, do not plug the USB  into anything that is not air gapped.  (Finch) I already did.  There was no other way to test it.  - What's wrong? - Damn it.  It's a beacon.  Samaritan knows where you are.  You need to get the hell out, fast.  John, we can't abandon the Machine.  I thought you'd say that.  We'll be there to back you up  as soon as we can.  This way.  Shaw, wait.  How did Greer know we were gonna capture him?  What?  He knew it.  That's why he created a trap and implanted a USB.  Somebody warned him.  You got something to say?  You better nut up and say it.  Did you warn him?  Not a chance in hell.  You good?  Yeah.  We gotta go, come on.  Something's wrong with you.  We're not going back to the Machine  until we talk this through.  Come on, I'll buy you a cup of coffee.  [suspenseful music]    [echoing voices]  (Finch) John, Sameen, are you all right?  What's going on?  I don't know what happened.  Samaritan ops, they came out of nowhere.  They got him.  John's dead.  (Finch) No, this can't happen!  (Root) Shaw, you have to get out of there.  I'll come find you, bring you back.  You can't. You're hurt.  I am not ready to lose you again, Sameen.  Whatever happened, we'll fix it.  Just stay alive.  [labored breathing]  [whispers] Don't.  No, please don't.  This way.    I think we lost them.  We gotta get back to the Machine.  We need to be sure first.  Harold's alone, unprotected.  Don't worry.  I'll watch our tail.  You lead the way.  There's something I need to tell you  about Reese.  It can wait till we're home safe.  Follow me.  Where are you going?  We need to get back to Harold and the Machine.  [whispers] I can't do this anymore.  I don't know who's controlling this.  Controlling what, sweetie?  Me.  I shot Reese.  And now I'm gonna kill you too.  So why haven't you?  Because somewhere  in your sociopathic heart,  you know we belong together.  We'll work through this,  but first I need to get you to safety.  But nothing's safe.  Do you know where we are?  What they did to me?  The torture?  I told you I couldn't escape it.  But when things got to be too bad  there was one place I would go to in my mind.  [melancholy music]  Here  with you.  You were my safe place.  But not anymore,  and I can't control myself.  So the only thing  I can control is this.  Sameen!  [sweeping orchestration]    [children laughing]  Sir, she blew her brains out again.  And she didn't lead us any closer  to the Machine's location.  It appears we still have a few wrinkles to iron out.  Good news-- she waited an extra hour  before she shot you.  How uplifting.  Shall we give it another go, sir?  Yes.  Start the simulation again.  Simulation 6,742.  [gasps]  (doctor) How are you doing, Sameen?  We have all the time in the world, my dear Sameen.
1 (Finch voice-over) You are being watched.  The government has a secret system  [voice warping] Secret system  (Greer) A system you asked for, to keep you safe.  (Finch) A Machine that spies on you every hour of every day.  (Greer) You've granted it the power to see everything,  to index, order, and control the lives of ordinary people.  (Finch) The government considers these people irrelevant.  We don't.  (Greer) But to it, you are all irrelevant.  Victim or perpetrator, if you stand in its way  (Finch) We'll find you.   [people speaking indistinctly]    [phone rings]  Good morning, John.  Any updates from the subway?  Are the simulations up and running?  No news yet.  Professor Whistler needed to check some books out  from the campus library, so while I was out  I thought I would take the opportunity to update  security at the safe house.  Was there a problem with the safe house?  (Finch) You can't be too careful.  I take it that you've managed to track down our latest number.  I'm at the Real Time Crime Center.  A watcher watching the watchers.  Or listener, as the case may be.  Ethan Garvin.  A sound analyst for ShotSeeker,  an acoustic surveillance system that uses microphones  mounted across the city to pinpoint the location  of a gunshot, and can do it to within 50 feet.  I see you've done your homework, Professor.  More fun doing it than grading it.  Mr. Garvin's main job is to rule out false positives  from loud noises like car backfires,  before dispatching police.  Right now he's wrapping up a 12-hour night shift  and slamming coffee like he just woke up.  [loud bangs]  Were those gunshots, Mr. Reese?  Time will tell, Professor.  Garvin's on the case.  Four sensors generating data.  [electronic beeping]  [loud bangs]  148 decibels.  [electronic beeping]  Do you need a hand, Detective?  Riley. My question can wait though.  I want to see ShotSeeker in action.  Well, ShotSeeker says it's gunfire,  but the question is, what does Garvin say?  [loud bangs]  [electronic beeping]  Shots fired.  Shots fired near 19026 Hilltop.  Unit 329, you're one block west.  (man) Copy that.  Officers in pursuit.  20 bucks says it's a Glock 22.  - Any takers? - [chuckles]  The city almost scrapped this whole system six months ago.  Too many false alarms, but then Garvin came in,  recalibrated the sensors, and efficiency is through the roof.  (man) Okay, suspect's in custody.  Nice work, Garvin.  It's a Glock 22.    Want to grab some lunch, Garvin?  No, thanks.  I promised the old lady we'd go to sushi.  [phone ringing]  And your question was?  Actually, I need to take this call.  Listen, babe, I got to cancel sushi.  I'm getting sucked back into overtime.  (Reese) Garvin just lied to his girlfriend.  I wonder who else he's lying to.  [people speaking indistinctly]  All right, you guys are up next.  Nice good warm-up laps. Good job.  - This should cover it. - All right.    Do I know you?  Why don't we take three steps to the left?  Domain Awareness doesn't need to see this.    (Coach) That's it.  I'm on my lunch break, pal.  Your son Lee is not half bad.  His footwork's sloppy, but he's good with a stick.  I know talent when I see it.  I also know you're one of the last people  to see Carl Elias alive.  You want to know about Elias?  I want to know who killed my friend.  It's in my report.  I don't believe police reports written by dirty cops.  - I came here for the truth. - You got the truth.  Now why don't you take off while you still got your teeth?  Let me put it to you this way,  I loved Carl Elias like a brother,  the way some fathers love their sons.  I swear to God, you look at my kid one more time.    You don't know what you're talking about.  You're asking questions even I don't know the answers to.  Okay.  I get it now.  It's your partner that calls the shots  even when it's your name on the report.  You tell John Bruce Moran's looking for him.  I'll see you around, Detective.  [electronic beeping]    I like what you've done with the place.  Padlock's a nice touch.  A necessary precaution.  We copied that malware together,  and now you're seriously locking me out?  More like locking Samaritan in.  I used code from that laptop to incubate a miniature clone  of our enemy ASI.  You put a baby Samaritan in a nursery.  Just a kernel of its code  trapped inside this Faraday cage.  What's your plan, Harry?  Zip tie it to a chair and ask it questions?  No, I thought I'd leave that to the Machine.  I've begun incubating a similar kernel of our own ASI.  Soon I'll allow the two entities to engage one another  in a series of controlled simulations  with the Machine code probing the Samaritan code  for weaknesses.  Like rival ASIs playing online chess.  The results of the simulations might indicate a strategy  we could use against Samaritan in the real world.  When's show time?  I need an hour or so.  I'll go get the popcorn.  Actually, Ms. Groves,  this is more of a closed performance.    So you are locking me out.  Not just you. Everyone.  If you want me to do whatever it takes,  I'll have to do it on my own terms.  [phone ringing]  Yes, Mr. Reese.  (Reese) Hold on a sec, Finch.    Well, we know how Garvin gets his second wind,  and it's not Jamba Juice.  Just tailed him to 607 West 126th.  (Finch) Low-income housing on the edge of campus.  Equally popular among the working poor  or graduate students whose parents don't pay their rent.  [knocking]  Krupa.  [knocking]  Finch, what's behind door number 4J?  [keys clacking]  Krupa Naik.  She's pursuing a doctorate in chemistry at the university.  Perhaps Mr. Garvin's chemical stash ran low.  Krupa.  [knocking]  Hey, yo, come on, man.  You again?  I'm looking for Krupa Naik. You seen her?  Get lost  before I call the real cops.  When was the last time you saw her?  [door slams]    [door squeaks]  W-w-wait, please. It's about Krupa.  He's badgering the girl from 4E now.  [keys clacking]  [electronic beeping]  Mary Mulhall.  She's in the same graduate program as Krupa.  I don't even know you.  But you must've known Krupa.  Here.  I need to know if you hear from her.  [door slams]  Okay, Garvin might be a good listener,  but he's an even better stalker.    Hold the phone, Finch.  [wood cracks]  Think we just found our perp.  He just broke into Krupa's apartment.  [escalating dramatic music]  [gun clicks]  [gunshots]  Lower your weapon, nobody gets hurt.    You were at the RTCC this morning.  John Riley. Homicide.  Took you long enough.  [gunshots]  [electronic whirring and beeping]  [phone beeps]  [dramatic music]  It's a ShotSeeker alert.  It just recognized those gunshots.  (man) Shots fired near 607 West 126th Street.  Unit 214, you are two blocks east.  Scratch that, dispatch.  This is John Riley, Homicide.  I'm at the location now. Suspect's in custody.    What's going on with you, Garvin?  Three nights ago at 2:00 a.m., ShotSeeker microphones  picked up three loud pops from inside this building.  It was unmistakably gunfire, but the program said  that it was firecrackers.  So, how many pills you pop  before you unmistakably heard gunfire?  Look, the woman who lives here, grad student named Krupa Naik,  she hasn't been seen for days.  Official story says that she went missing after setting off  three M80s in her living room, but the last time I checked,  this ain't the fourth of July,  and it's not something PhD chemists do for fun.  So you think she was shot.  It was gunfire,  and I can prove it.  Hey.  Easy now.    Trust me.  [lighter clicks]  [sparks crackling]  [firecrackers exploding]  These are the M80 firecrackers that ShotSeeker picked up  a half an hour ago.  See how precise?  ShotSeeker picked up the sound, located it correctly,  and identified it as firecrackers.  Now here's what ShotSeeker recorded three nights ago  at Krupa's place.  [loud bangs]  That's firecracker, right?  Yeah, same sound, same waveform.  Yeah.  I could see why you would think that,  but you see that spike?  It's pressurized gas escaping as the bullet exits the barrel.  It's also called a muzzle blast.  From a Ruger 22.  How can you tell that?  I can hear it.  I was just born this way.    And here's the Ruger that you watched me unload  - into Krupa's fireplace. - [gunshots]  Now if we compare that with the so-called firecrackers  from the other night.  [loud bangs]  - Identical. - Yeah.  Krupa disappeared after three bullets were fired  in her living room three nights ago.  And no one seems to give a damn.  Unless you feel inspired, Detective.  Mary Mulhall.  She's Krupa's neighbor and classmate.  I think she knows something but is too afraid to talk.  [phone ringing]  I've hacked into ShotSeeker from here, Mr. Reese,  and while I can't claim Mr. Garvin's sharp ears,  I'm inclined to believe his case.  He appears to have stumbled on a possible murder.  Whoever shot Krupa may be targeting Garvin  to scuttle his investigation.    The best way to protect Ethan Garvin  is to find out who's responsible for Krupa's disappearance.  Why don't you and Mr. Garvin run down your first lead?  An official missing persons report for Krupa Naik  was filed today by Benjamin Haas,  president of an anti-hunger non-profit  called Feed The Globe.  Let's get going.  Where to now?  Hold on a second, partner.  We got a problem.  This guy Bruce Moran threatened my kid.  He's Elias's closest ally.  He's been underground for months.  Yeah, well, he decided to get some sun.  You know, it's one thing to keep me in the dark,  but it's something completely different  to put my family at risk.  Don't worry, I'll make it right.  Tell him the truth.  'Cause if you won't, I will.  At least my end of it.  I told you, I will handle it,  but now, I need you to work this missing persons case  with my new friend Ethan Garvin.    Another missing persons.  [people speaking indistinctly]  All right, Ms. Groves.  The miniature machine clone is on this laptop.  You know, for a man with such serious concerns  about the proliferation of artificial super intelligence,  you sure do love to build new ones.  [metal clanging]  I can connect this Machine laptop to the Samaritan laptop  via this central computer, which will function as a forum  for their virtual engagement.  Or a Roman Colosseum for an unlimited series  of virtual battles.  If Samaritan has a fatal flaw, we'll know it soon enough.  This is what She wanted, Harold.  Let the games begin.  [key clacks]  [electronic beeping]      It's working.  [electronic beeping]    [people speaking indistinctly]    When's the last time you slept?  Couple days. I don't know.  - Not since Krupa went missing. - I hear you.  My last couple of missing person cases hit a brick wall,  but you got to take care of yourself.  You know those guys?  No.  Why?  That's weird.    Americans throw out enough food every year  to fill 730 football stadiums.  The world doesn't have an abundance problem  when it comes to food.  It has a distribution problem.  What's that have to do with our Krupa Naik problem?  Krupa developed a freeze-drying process that would convert  fresh produce to powder, and extend its shelf life  by two years.  She was going to license her research to us for a modest fee  so we could feed millions,  but someone didn't want us to have it.  Who?  [bright instrumental music]    I'm J.D. Carrick, CEO of Harvesta.  J.D. Carrick offered Krupa a fortune  to buy her research outright.  And that's a bad thing how?  Well, she said no, and then vanished.  Harvesta opposition has a habit of disappearing,  including six farming activists in Ecuador last month.  Why do you think it was this guy?  Well, Carrick got pretty hostile during negotiations.  Three days ago, Krupa chose Feed The Globe  over Harvesta,  and that was the last time anyone saw her.  Then, about 2:00 a.m. that night  Same time Krupa went missing.  Somebody hacked our company servers and stole just one file.  Let me guess.  The one with Krupa's research on it.  So, you think whoever stole that file  is behind her disappearance.  I know it, but my I guy can't trace the hack.  Maybe my IT guy's better than yours.  [people speaking indistinctly]  [intense music]  [thud]  [car horn honks]  [dramatic music]    You've been underground for months,  and you chose to resurface  by threatening Detective Fusco's son.  I thought you were smarter than that, Bruce.  It worked.  I got your attention.  I need you to listen to me.  Go back underground and stay there until you're ready to die.  Carl Elias and Anthony Marconi were my brothers  since childhood, and I lost them both within a matter of months.  Anthony's death was suitably avenged.  Elias saw to that.  Elias's final chapter has yet to be written.    But I can't write it until I know who killed him,  which I think you do.  That's not a question you want the answer to.  Whoever went after Elias would kill you just for asking it,  let alone seeking vengeance.  I made my peace with that.  Well, I'm sorry for your loss, Bruce,  but that's what it is.  A loss.  You want to talk about loyalty?  I'll kill you myself you ever go near Fusco again.    730 stadiums, that's a lot of leftovers.  [phone beeps]  Multiple gunshots fired at 64 West 21st Street.  That's here.  (man) Multiple shots fired at 64 West 21st Street.  - There's no gunfire. - All units respond.  ShotSeeker must be wrong.  (man) Shooter is a male, 5'10",  wearing a plaid shirt and a black hoodie,  and is considered armed and extremely dangerous.  [sirens wailing]  That's you. Drop the phone.  I'm calling the ShotSeeker tech.  Drop your phone!  What's happening?  - [gun clicks] - Drop the gun!  It's not a gun! It's not a gun!  I'm a cop! Don't shoot!  [escalating dramatic music]  [people speaking indistinctly]  Boy, you look more strung out than usual.  Yeah, four cops almost shot me.  Yeah, and I almost took the bullets.  [phone buzzes]  Someone just tried to set him up for a suicide by cop,  and they used ShotSeeker to do it.  I saw two guys in a van that might be tracking us.  Could be working for Harvesta.  RTCC's trying to pull up some visuals now.  I've already checked, Detective.  There are cameras outside Feed The Globe,  but that van  was never in their sight.  However, the anonymous phone call  with Garvin's exact description came from a nearby payphone,  also off camera.  Anonymous, huh?  Send me the address. I'll go check it out.  That's interesting.  Someone hacks Feed The Globe to steal Krupa's research,  and then ShotSeeker is hacked  to orchestrate a suicide by cop.  Ms. Groves and I will follow the cyber trail.  - Okay, I'll take Garvin to - Detective.  Krupa's neighbor from apartment 4E, Mary.  She wants to meet.  Very good.  Keep me posted.  No rest for the weary.  Let's go.  Hey, you settle that thing with Bruce?  Well, settled's a stretch,  but I got him off your back.  Got to go, Lionel.  [dramatic music]  I'll take ShotSeeker, you look at Feed The Globe.  Okay, Harry.  Let's hack these hackers.    How goes the ASI death match?  Too soon to tell, I'm afraid.  Is it?  Even her replica's overmatched.  Have you considered recoding Her with a more defensive stance?  You mean arm the Machine?  More like equip Her with the tools She needs  to better protect herself.  Self-preservation is a very close cousin to aggression.  A child, your child, needs to learn to push back  on the playground.  That's not an instinct we should hope to nurture  in any artificial super intelligence.  Not even one that we call our own.  She's our only ally in this war.  You need to learn to trust Her.  But I do, Ms. Groves.  The Machine is infinitely smarter than either of us.  If anyone here needs to recode the Machine,  it should be the Machine.    [people speaking indistinctly]  (Garvin) Mary's late.  Maybe she got scared.  That's no way to live, Garvin.  You're gonna run yourself into the ground.  You know, I must've dispatched a thousand cops  to a thousand different crime scenes.  Every shooting victim never more than just a name in a file,  and then three nights ago,  back from dispatch I heard the name  like a shot from the past.  Krupa Naik.  Like, whoa. I know that name.  First time on the job, you know?  You knew her?  No, I mean, we weren't friends.  I knew who she was way back in high school,  and to be honest, I never even really liked her.  Got the best grades, but I always thought  she was kind of a kiss-ass.  Turns out she's out there changing the world  while the rest of us are wearing headphones,  and now she's gone,  and nobody cares.  You care.  Another missing persons, three days gone.  You know how this ends, don't you?  No,  and neither do you.    Never lose that.  I can't find any evidence that ShotSeeker was ever hacked.  It's possible we're looking at this all wrong.  Hmm. Not so fast, Harry.  I just found evidence of the cyber attack  on Feed The Globe's servers.  Thee nights ago at 2:00 a.m.  Can you tell where it originated?  Inside Harvesta on a laptop belonging to its CEO,  J.D. Carrick.  There's the missing research file right there.  Looks like Carrick stole the file  right before he had Krupa killed.  Let's have a look.  [sighs]  [electronic beeping]  I can't seem to open it.  That's some pretty wily encryption.  Detective, any luck locating that anonymous caller?  Nah, nobody saw anything.  By the way, this phone's out of order.  That doesn't seem possible.  [phone rings]  Good for you. A phone that works.  I'll call you back, Detective.    (Finch) Mr. Reese, have you made contact with Mary yet?  Not yet. Why?  [loud bangs]  Were those shots fired, Finch?  [electronic beeping]  ShotSeeker pinpoints the noise  to a university facilities yard not far from the chemistry lab  where Krupa and Mary work, but  [electronic beep]  Oh, that's odd.  ShotSeeker says it's car backfire, but  [gunshots]  Those are definitely gunshots.  It's another cover-up in progress.  The police won't be alerted, Mr. Reese.  You need to get there fast.  [electronic beeping]  The number. It's Mary.  Detective Fusco, we have an emergency.  [electronic whirring]    I heard something up there.  Please, help, please.  [gasping]  We found Mary, Finch.  We're gonna need an ambulance.  - [knocking] - I heard something.  - He's still here. - Get down now.  [gunshots]  You all right?  [tires squeal]  What's your status, Mr. Reese?  Fusco's here. I'm in pursuit now.  Wait here for my partner.    An ambulance is on the way, Mary, but listen.  We can still find Krupa.  [stuttering] He knows.  Knows? What?  What does he know?  [whispering] He's he's  [gasping]  The anonymous call originated at a broken pay phone.  The ShotSeeker hack is real, but is completely invisible,  and yes, Harvesta is the beneficiary  of this conspiracy, but only one entity is sophisticated enough  to execute it.  (Root) Samaritan.  (Finch) Proceed with caution, Mr. Reese.  The shooter's with Samaritan.  Got it.  [tires squeal]    Suspect's moving east on 119th Street.  Gray van. New York plates KDD-0327.  Where's my partner?  You can relax, Finch.  He's gone.  [gravel crunches]  [grunts]  (man) My boss wants to talk to you.  Mr. Reese?  Mr. Reese?    [people speaking indistinctly]  Mary Mulhall is dead.  My partner's gone and he's not answering his phone.  Any bright ideas, Finch?  One moment please, Detective.  I'm afraid Samaritan has John.  [dramatic music]  Locate primary asset.  [electronic beeping]    Show me John Reese.  [electronic beeping]  Shaw's trail's cold,  but John's isn't yet.  We need a lead fast before we lose him too.  Sit tight, Detective.  (Fusco) No way, glasses.  I don't think so. My partner's missing.  He's NYPD. Everybody listen up.  I am Detective Lionel Fusco from the Homicide Task Force.  My partner, Detective John Riley,  disappeared from this location  22 minutes ago in pursuit  of the pissant who killed this woman.  One of ours is missing, guys,  and we're gonna get him back.  You, get on the RTCC  and get a hit on that gray van I called in.  You, I want you to find J.D. Carrick from Harvesta.  Bring him to the 8th for questioning,  and I want to talk to him.  Everyone else, clock's ticking. Let's go.  Oh, dear, Detective Fusco is running headlong  into Samaritan's crosshairs.  Detective, I understand your zeal,  but I would urge you to use caution  until we know what we're up against.  See, that's the thing, Mr. Wizard.  I think you know exactly what we're up against,  but you flat-out refuse to tell me.  Detective Fusco, I assure you  Don't tell me you haven't noticed that homicides  are dropping, but suicides are up,  and so are missing persons.  There are people disappearing all over this town.  Now John's gone too.  I am not gonna let this one lie.  Not this time.  Wonderful.  Now we have to save Mr. Reese from Samaritan  and Detective Fusco from himself.  John needs our help now.  You have to give us something to work with.  [electronic beeping]  (Mulhall) Krupa gave me a hard drive.  (man) Where? Your apartment?  (Mulhall) If I tell you, w-will I see her again?  (man) What do you think?  (Mulhall) Go to hell.  [gunshots]  (man) We'll find it.    That hard drive, it's our best chance to get a lead on Reese.  I'll come with you.  No.  I need you here more than ever.  Don't worry.  If there's trouble on the playground  [metal clangs]  I'll push first.  Locate New York plates KDD-0327.  [people speaking indistinctly]  Mary must've told them something.  I think your heart's in the right place, kid,  but maybe you should leave the police work  to the real police, so no one else gets hurt, huh?  [metal clanging]  This is for your own good.  Everywhere you go, a bullet seems to follow.    J.D. Carrick from Harvesta.  Are you responsible for this?  Detective Fusco, Homicide.  Homicide?  That's a big game badge, Detective.  That's gonna look great stuffed and mounted on my wall.  Let's go, tough guy.  Yeah, sit down.  My partner's missing,  and every minute I don't find him,  your life's gonna get worse.  I've got one dead girl, another one missing,  a cyber crime trail that leads from Krupa's missing research  directly back to your laptop.  Krupa. Krupa Naik?  Look, pal.  You can help yourself out here  by telling me where my partner is.  Krupa Naik is an impressive chemist  who chose to waste her brilliant scientific innovation  on delivering food to starving Africans who insist on living  where they can't actually grow any food themselves.  You'd be better off arresting her for idiocy.  Yeah, but I can't do that because you've already  murdered her for a business deal.  Hang on.  Krupa's dead?  Hey, look, this stuff might work in Ecuador,  but this is New York City, pal.  Exactly right, my friend, this is New York,  where guys like me have lawyers for cops like you.  You do your job and go wake up my attorney.    [lock clicks]  [escalating dramatic music]  Let's try this again, big time.  [electronic beeping]  [dramatic music]      (Finch) I could use some good news, Root.  I wish I had some.  Looks like Samaritan's already been here.  Wait.  He's still here, but he hasn't found the hard drive yet.  [sighs]  Wish me luck, Harry.  Ms. Groves?  [electronic beeping]  [electronic beep]  Please tell me you found Mr. Reese.  You found the van.  At the precinct.    Detective Fusco, Mary's killer is heading into  the 8th precinct.  Mary's too smart to hide it in her things.  - [thud] - [grunts]  Where is he? Where's Reese?  Who?  [groans]  Welcome back to Brooklyn, John.  This time we're gonna talk on my terms.    [electronic whirring and beeping]  [dramatic music]  Elias spoke well of you, John.  You're a man of honor  with impeccable training, so it'd be doubly pointless  to tie you up,  but they'll shoot you if you move from that chair.  I'll keep that in mind.  It's been four months since Elias and Dominic  were assassinated,  along with at least four other kingpins.  What four other kingpins?  In Boston, Philly, Chicago.  That mean something to you?  I think it means crime doesn't pay.  [door creaks]    Four long months, I've been lying in wait to retaliate  against whomever rose up to fill the void.  And nobody rose up, and I'm tired of waiting.  I think you know who killed Elias,  and I'd like for you to tell me who.  I know you.  Never forget a face.  Maybe you have me confused with the last guy  you held at gunpoint.  If you don't tell me where Reese is,  I'm gonna do more than just point.  Don't know, don't care,  but I can't let you leave with that hard drive.  Why?  What's on it?  All I know is it's dangerous,  and my boss is paying good money for it.  On top of murdering the poor woman who lived here.    I don't know anything about that.  [sirens wailing]  Tell me where Samaritan's taken Reese.  Samaritan?  You really don't know.  You're just a cog in a wheel you can't possibly comprehend.  You don't know a damn thing about me.  You just know this:  I'm not going back to jail.  You can forget about the drive too.  [sirens wailing, tires screeching]  Agree to disagree?    You work for an organization called Samaritan.  They may have convinced you of their own good intentions,  but believe me, they're lying.  [electronic whirring]  [handcuffs clinking]  Detective Fusco!  [thud]  You need something, kid?    Don't move. Hands behind your back.  [exhales heavily]  You're gonna be okay, kid.  Still no word from John.  The guy they sent was a runner.  He didn't know anything,  but we know him.  It's Jeff Blackwell.  He was a number.  One we dismissed.  Guess She was right after all.  He's off the grid doing Samaritan's bidding now.  Got a feeling we haven't seen the last of him.  How's our twitchy tech?  Detective Fusco stopped one assassin,  but Samaritan will just keep sending more.  And we can't put a stop to it until we understand  why Garvin's targeted in the first place.  Oh, maybe this will help.  Blackwell said Samaritan thinks it's dangerous.  It's a backup of Krupa's research.  You saw this exact file on Carrick's computer  earlier today, didn't you?  I couldn't open it, remember?  Wily encryption.  That's interesting. May I?  Yeah.    Samaritan has encrypted the file so that no human  can ever open it.  It's a decoy, Ms. Groves.  A fake.  Samaritan planted this decoy on Carrick's computer  to frame him for Krupa's murder.  How adorably ruthless and elaborate.  Carrick has done this sort of thing before in Ecuador,  so it's more than easy to assume he did it here.  Good work, Harry.  [sighs]  But how do we save Ethan Garvin's life?  Let's assume that Samaritan is targeting Garvin  because his investigation threatens to unearth  a copy of Krupa's research.  Which is exactly what happened.  By that logic, if we disseminate the research now,  Garvin ceases to be a threat.  The danger that he represents would've already come to pass.  I can upload it to 15 online science journals right now.  You could, but should we?  Why does Samaritan want to bury that research so badly?  Could solving world hunger lead to an overpopulation problem?  We can't pretend to understand Samaritan's motivations.  For all we know, it did all of this just to assume control  of the global food supply,  but what we do know is we can save a life today  by doing the opposite of what Samaritan wants.  All I have to do is hit this button.  Do it.  [electronic beeping]  [electronic whirring]  Did it work?  We'll know soon enough.  [electronic beeping]  I'll tell you what you want to know,  but these men need to leave the room.  I'm not gonna put their lives at risk too.  These men are Elias's men.  They were loyal to Elias.  They're every bit as invested in my mission.  In that case, I'm leaving now,  but first I got to find my cell phone.  [guns clicking]  Oh, come on, fellas.  I thought we were men of honor.  I can't control them, John.  Yeah.  [escalating dramatic music]  [gunshot]  [thudding]  [yells]  [gun clicks]  Good.  Now we can talk.  We saved a life today, but at what cost?    [phone rings]  John? Hello?  Are you okay?  I'm with Bruce.  He wants the truth.  Won't take no for an answer.  I understand.  30 minutes.  [phone beeps]  Hmm.  I guess we can take Helper Monkey  off the endangered species list.  For now at least.  Chin up, Harry.  Our path to victory will reveal itself soon enough.    Let's hope you're right.  [electronic beeping]  You did good, Garvin.  We got two guys in custody thanks to you.  Krupa's still missing. Mary's dead.  Yeah, we did the best we could.  It wasn't enough.  Hey, it never is.  That's the curse of what we do, and why we never stop.  I'm not giving up on Krupa.  She's not alone among the missing.  Thanks, Detective.  Go home and get some sleep.  Hey, and get yourself a razor, will you?  [electronic whirring]  Hello, old friend.  Carl?  I apologize for not contacting you sooner,  but it was for your own good.  How so?  I knew you'd take vengeance, Bruce.  Would surely get you killed.  They said you burned up in that transport van.  Detective Fusco took a big risk that night.  He got me here.  John and Harold brought me back from the brink.  Speaking of the good detective, he's worried about you, John.  We all were.  I'm telling you, this guy knows something about Riley.  [phone ringing]    - Yeah. - Hey, Lionel.  Hey, buddy, you okay? Where are you?  I'm with Bruce at the safe house.  He's not gonna bother you anymore.  As long as you're okay.  (Reese) Listen, Lionel,  you stuck your neck out for me,  and we appreciate it.  Thank you.  From all of us.  Yeah, sure.  As long as you know I'm not done asking questions.  I don't even think the CEO's guilty.  He thinks he got framed up, and guess what.  So do I.  Can we pick this up tomorrow?  No, we can't.  There's something strange going on right now,  and I'm gonna investigate it  with or without the nerd herd.  [phone beeping]  Who did this to you?  There's a new player out there.  An adversary that we can't beat,  and one we best not try and fight.  What are you even talking about?  We always faced our enemies head on.  We built a whole world that way.  Me, you, Anthony.  There's no room for guys like us anymore,  and you always understood the value of the shadows.  Well, I don't have that luxury anymore.  With you gone, someone's got to step up and handle the business,  lest we lost everything we created.  Go back to the shadows, Bruce.  Embrace them fully.  We all must.  I won't give up that easily.  You know me better than that.  Take care of yourself.  Harold.  What's the word from the subway?  Are the simulations up and running?  There have been over 10 billion scenarios so far,  and I'm sorry to say,  the Machine is struggling.  So how bad?  She's lost every one, John.  I'm afraid we're fighting a war we can't win.  [indistinct radio chatter]  [electronic whirring and beeping]  Spare some change, brother?  Spare come change, brother?  [people speaking indistinctly growing louder]
1 (Finch) You are being watched.  The government has a secret system   [voice distorts] secret system   (Greer) A system you asked for  to keep you safe.  (Finch) A machine that spies on you  every hour of every day.  (Greer) You granted it the power to see everything.  To index, order, and control  the lives of ordinary people.  (Finch) The government considers  these people irrelevant.  We don't.  (Greer) But to it, you are all irrelevant.  Victim or perpetrator,  if you stand in its way   (Finch) We'll find you.   [electricity buzzing]  [heartbeat thumping]  [monitor beeping]  [beeping quickens]  [gasps]  [breathing heavily]  Well?  Mission failure again, sir.  Aren't you tired, my dear Sameen?  Why would I be?  That's what, 7,053 times  you've tried to get me to murder my friends?  I meant tired of turning the gun on yourself.  I've done worse.  You're a smart girl.  The simulation is not convincing you.  Perhaps a little field trip will be just the ticket.  To what?  To showing you  the people you refuse to betray  are not the heroes.  They're the villains.  (Reese) Finch, I'm at the hotel.  Want to tell me what I'm doing here?  (Finch) We've received a new number.  Although the Machine retains  its whimsical sense of humor.  This number belongs to a marriage license.  So I'm afraid we must assume  that the threat will surface at the wedding itself.  So who's the happy couple?  (Finch) Phoebe Turner,  a Harvard graduate,  and daughter of Kent Turner.  She's an heiress to her father's  billion-dollar horse racing empire.  And the groom?  (Finch) Will O'Brien.  A Boston College grad.  Will's a public defender.  So I suppose it's reasonable to speculate  that some members of the family  may not want this wedding to happen.  Until we can determine who is victim or perpetrator,  we need to keep an eye on both.  Phoebe is in Room 541.  So what is she doing here?  Her sister called the police.  [distant commotion]  [item shatters, woman screams]  Good, you're here.  You got my back?  Don't worry. We got this one.  Good thing you're in character.  Could get rough in there.  Especially for a silver fox like you.  You gonna be okay to run interference  if things get out of hand?  [woman screaming]  I'll go first.  [woman screams]  Someone called the police?  It's about time you showed up.  [music playing]  (women) Whoo!  Come on, come on   Come on, come on   [all cheering]    [all cheering]  How much would it be to get you  into something more comfortable?  I'm only here for security.  Do me a favor, step back, ma'am.  Thank you.  I love a man in charge.  (woman) Whoo!  (Finch) Sorry, Mr. Reese,  but I had no choice.  I need you at that wedding.  [women shrieking]  [music continues]  [phone dialing]  Detective Fusco,  I was hoping to enlist your help  for the weekend.  Rumor has it that there will be a caviar bar.  No can do. I got a life.  Not to mention, a day job.  [phone beeps off]    All these missing persons.  Where'd you go?  How's our little petri dish doing?  Is the Machine's replica holding up against Samaritan?  Yes. Very well.  Thank you.  Who would've thought my latest cover  didn't like paying rent?  - Artist? - Meth head.  I need a place to crash for a few nights.  I'll make lasagna.  You're welcome to stay here.  You can feed Bear while I attend a wedding.  [chuckles]  Since when did you start dressing like  a middle school science teacher?  I don't.  But Uncle Ralph does.  Are you crashing a wedding?  Of course not.  I have an invitation.  How did you manage that?  I wired 500 euros  to the groom's estranged uncle in Ireland.  The real Uncle Ralph  wasn't gonna be sober enough  to make the ceremony anyway.  Sounds like a big job.  It is.  But surely you would not enjoy a wedding.  Even I appreciate a fairy tale ending, Harry.  Family politics, over-cooked meat,  monogamy. What's not to love?  Hmm.  Bear takes one scoop of kibble twice a day.  Oh, and if you could answer the pay phone,  should it ring.  Mr. Reese,  have you managed to secure  an invitation to the wedding?  I did.  Phoebe's sister, Janna, invited me.  Turns out I'm her type.  Who knew.  Have you identified any potential threats  - to Phoebe? - Didn't have to.  Janna did it all for me.  Tequila makes her talk.  Seems Janna and Will's uncle, Ralph,  have a great deal in common.  Did you know  the groom's ex-girlfriend, Becca, is a bridesmaid?  That sounds like a recipe for disaster.  Janna also told me Kent Turner plays favorites.  Turner was gonna hand over his racing dynasty to Phoebe.  Wow, that's what happened?  Phoebe met Will.  Her father decided he'd give  her eldest sister, Karen,  the reins to the business instead.  (Karen) Let me fix your tiara, Phoebe.  [women giggling]  But even without the business,  Phoebe stands to inherit a cool 300 million.  Perhaps Mr. Turner is willing to kill the groom  to make sure he doesn't get his hands on the family fortune.  I think our best chance to stop the threat  is to ensure that the wedding happens.  You should pack for two days.  I'm sorry, Finch.  I can't spend two days with billionaires.  Well, then I hope you like horses better,  because the ceremony takes place  at the Turner family farm upstate.  Pack your riding boots, Mr. Reese.  We're about to crash a wedding.  [women chattering]  I want to take that guy.  [women cheer]  (Greer) Enjoying your field trip, Sameen?  [guitar playing melody]  Yes, they work for us.  At least wait until we've had our lunch  before you attempt to escape.  Beatrice Lillie from Parks Deli in Chinatown.  Extra mustard, pepperoncinis,  no trace of mayonnaise.  What?  Lost your appetite?  Why did you bring me here?  (Greer) These two gentlemen.  (Shaw) Of course.  To show me two rich,  balding white men.  They're high-frequency traders.  In the last month alone, their actions  have put several companies out of business.  One of those companies maintained air conditioners at low prices.  Another provided affordable vaccines  to third world countries.  So just have your Machine  put them in white-collar prison where they can meet  more of their kind and rob more innocent people.  They didn't just rob innocent people, Sameen.  Because these men committed fraud,  elderly citizens from Bakersfield to Bangladesh  perished because they had no access to cooling systems.  A hundred children in Uganda died of measles.  (Greer) Those men are killers,  and they will kill again.  Tell me,  do you still believe white-collar prison  is sufficient punishment for them?  (Reese) Finch, I'm at the gate of the Turner estate.  [muffled clamoring]  Invitation, sir?  Guess these guys didn't get  the black tie optional memo.  [muffled clamors]  You seeing these protestors, Finch?  Yes, I'm right behind you.  (Reese) Be glad you're on  the groom's side of the family.  The father of the bride is getting death threats.  [muffled clamors]  (guard) Enjoy the wedding, sir.  Nice ride.  Uh, given Uncle Ralph's penchant for whiskey,  I'm surprised he's allowed to drive at all.  [classical music]    (Reese) Got eyes on Turner, Finch.  Why do the protestors want him put down?  (Finch) Rumor has it,  Mr. Turner drugs his injured horses  so they'll run as if in peak condition.  Sounds like animal cruelty to me.  [phone ringing]  Yeah? Hold on.  Excuse me.  My instructions were clear.  Don Juan was to get a full week of recovery.  (Turner) Follow my instructions,  or find another job.  (Finch) Don Juan is the Turner's  current champion thoroughbred.  He earned a multi-million dollar purse just last week at Belmont.  I think he's earned a vacation.  (Janna) Hey, handsome.  - Janna. - I'm glad you could make it.  I had a little trouble getting in  because of the protestors.  Ugh, I should've warned you.  You knew they'd be here?  Oh, yeah, they've been here since I was a kid.  They're always accusing Daddy of something.  You know they're actually taking us to trial next month?  There I go with all the tequila talk.  [giggles]  You want another drink?  Sure.  Sounds like the protestors  have been out to get her father for years.  Think they're about ready  to make good on their threat to put him down?  I'm more inclined to think that someone  in the Turner family wants to make sure  that this wedding doesn't happen.  Because if it does,  Will would get half of Phoebe's fortune.  Our best course of action is to make sure the wedding proceeds.  Guess we should track down the bride and groom.  (Reese) Finch, I've located the bride with her sister.  (Phoebe) I could just kill them, Karen.  It has to be a misunderstanding.  How do I misunderstand  walking in on Will making out with Becca?  (Reese) Becca.  I mean, how could I ever believe  they were just friends in the first place?  [horse neighing]  Well, I guess Don Juan isn't buying it either.  How did Will explain what happened?  He didn't, because I ran away.  Phoebe, people aren't perfect.  Marriage isn't perfect.  But this thing you and Will have,  it's real, honey.  And Becca can't change that.  Excuse me.  They'll appreciate it later.  The little moments are always more important  than the big ones.  Well, you sound like a wise woman, Miss  Maggie.  I didn't catch your name.  Detective Riley.  Better known as Janna Turner's date.  She told me to track down the bride.  Right, Detective.  I've been photographing the Turners for 15 years.  In my own way, I protect them.  Even if they never realize I'm here.  I can relate.  [Bear whines]  [phone ringing]  Can't let that go to voicemail.  [ringing continues]  [garbled speech]  Oh, excuse me.  Uncle Ralph?  Hi!  I can't believe you made it all the way from Dublin.  You look different.  Smarter.  New glasses?  [Irish accent] Should help me see the ceremony.  If there is a ceremony.  What's this then?  Something happened with Becca.  Becca?  She's been my best friend for a decade,  and then this morning, out of the blue,  she threw herself at me.  Sounds like a feisty one.  No, no. That's not Becca.  That's why it was so strange.  What should I do?  Well, if you love this Phoebe,  don't let her get away.  My dad always said, after your falling out,  how much he missed your singing voice.  "Clear as a bell," he'd say.  "So sure and true."  Would you honor us with a song at the ceremony?  Oh, I'm not sure  your father will even like it that I'm here.  Uh, I wouldn't want to upset him further.  Uncle Ralph, he's no longer with us.  Doesn't mean he's not watching.  Right.  Thank you.  Ugh, this chair's gotta be killer on your back, Lionel.  You should look at some ergonomic options.  You should pay more taxes so I can get a better chair.  What are you and Marmaduke doing here?  Do you talk this way to all your mugging victims?  Most of my mugging victims don't have  a 150-pound killing machine.  He's not a killing machine.  He's my service dog.  I have crippling anxiety.  None of this sounds like a homicide.  But that could be.  Howard Carpenter,  he's a civil planner for the city.  He's in charge of construction  on the underground tunnels for all five boroughs.  If this guy's in trouble, why don't you handle it yourself?  - I'm Harry's plus one. - Huh?  For a wedding. A plus one?  Yeah, I know what a plus one is.  I'm just trying to picture you at a wedding.  Please, I left a guy  at the altar just last year.  What if this Howard has something to do  with the rise in missing persons?  What do you know about that?  Just that you might be the only one who can  stop poor Howard from becoming another statistic.  Happy hunting.  Perfect.  [sighs]  Oh, shut your bloody cakehole, Paddy.  I'm afraid I have to take  Paddy's side on this one.  I've tapped into the security system.  There's cameras all over the estate.  Nice temporary headquarters, Finch.  I like to travel with the essentials.  Looks like Kent Turner is taking a call.  What do you mean it didn't work?  I paid you to do a job.  You still think the dad's the perp  and the groom's the vic?  It certainly seems that way.  I accessed Becca's banking records.  An LLC registered to Kent Turner  transferred $10,000  into her account this morning.  - To kill Will. - No, to kiss him.  Didn't work.  Check out Phoebe and Will.  Looks like the wedding's still on.  Which means, Kent Turner may need to resort to  more desperate measures to keep Will away  from the family fortune.  (Reese) Well, we've got five minutes  to make sure the wedding happens.  [classical music playing]    [Wedding March plays]    (Finch) There's a protestor.  It appears the Turners have their first wedding crasher.  (Reese) That's not a crasher.  That's a killer.  (Officiant) You may be seated.  (Officiant) We are gathered here today  to celebrate the marriage of Phoebe Turner  (Reese) He doesn't have a clear shot to Kent Turner.  He's waiting for the right moment.  I, Phoebe, take you, Will,  to be my lawfully wedded husband.  And we have a second uninvited guest.  (Officiant) Please repeat after me.  I, Will, take you, Phoebe  We lost the first one, Finch.  (Will) I, Will, take you, Phoebe,  to be my lawfully wedded wife.  Now the second one's gone.  I now pronounce you husband and wife.  You may kiss the bride.  [guests applauding]  Why send two assassins for one target?  To make sure they don't miss.  In that case, we can be sure  they'll return to finish the job.  Okay, let me guess.  Those two are drowning orphans?  No?  Smothering cancer patients?  The one on the left is vice president of a company  that manufactures parts for commercial airlines.  He has found a way  of mass-marketing critical equipment  at a price far lower than his competitors.  Must be cutting corners.  Correct.  (Greer) His companion works for  the U.S.'s largest domestic  and commercial airline.  Right now, he's about to make a deal  to purchase faulty equipment  from our corrupt vice president.  Saving his airline money.  Both men will earn promotion,  salary bumps, bonuses, gold watches.  They will lead the good life.  But at least one of the airline's commercial jets will go down  over the course of the next five years,  because of the deal those men are making today.  At least, but how about at most?  Seven.  The death toll will settle at around 2,100.  Give or take a few infants in arms.  It's not enough to wait for an innocent life  to be in imminent danger.  If we were to eliminate  the two men in front of you now,  we would potentially save  2,100 souls.  Their number would not even need to come up.  You're trying to convince me that I'm playing  for the wrong team.  It's not working.  Then why haven't you tried to escape?  Come on.  Come on, hey, slow down, will ya?  Slow down. Just slow down. Hold up.  Is it just me, or is our pal, Howard, waiting for someone?  [phone blipping]  Come on.  I always get a partner that's a dud.  Mr. Carpenter.  Bruce, we need to talk.  You must've forgotten the pain meds.  Which of your companies wants permit 44208?  I don't know.  It's not my company.  Can you find out who's?  I'll ask around. If I feel like it,  I'll share the answer with you.  Okay, you have a nice day.  Hello, Bruce.  Detective.  Want another free lunch?  I want you to tell me  why Howard Carpenter's pissed at you.  You saved my boss's life.  I don't take that lightly.  You threatened my son.  I don't take that lightly.  Several of the five families' companies  have construction contracts with the city.  And you're greasing Howard's palms  to get your contracts pushed through.  There was a contract to demolish a tunnel.  Howard never received the payment from me,  but the odd thing is, the company requesting the permit  doesn't belong to one of the five families.  Must be a new player in town.  That's what I plan to find out.  I thought you were all done with this  criminal syndicate stuff?  Like your boss said, might get you killed.  Well, that's what I keep hearing.  Nobody wants to share  this dangerous entity's ID with me.  Maybe you know.  So your friend's keeping you in the dark too.  It's frustrating, isn't it?  Enough to make you question your loyalty.  Okay, that was the most stressful wedding ceremony  I've ever attended.  Seems like the protestors want to make good  on their promise to put Kent Turner down.  We need more information on the protestors' case  against Mr. Turner, if we want to identify  his would-be killers.  I'll see if Detective Fusco can unearth some details  about the animal cruelty lawsuit.  Meanwhile, perhaps the security camera footage  from the ceremony will help us to find them.  Well, that's convenient.  The cameras shut off during the ceremony.  Finch, I know someone who might've caught  our would-be assassins on film.  Maggie, the wedding photographer.  Yes, we have to get that camera.  Catch Maggie on her dinner break.  Cut the camera strap with  With that.  Bring the camera back here  where I'll remove the memory card  and clone it onto the laptop's hard drive.  [door opens]  Or we could just do this.  Ms. Groves, what are you doing here?  The original caterer got caught  on a health code violation early this morning.  Something about a Belgian Malinois storming his kitchen  with a rat in its jaw before the dog's tall,  brunette owner could stop him.  Luckily, I was free.  And I make a killer  carrot soup with crme frache.  [sighs] She had a little too much.  Did you drug her?  It'll wear off in 20 minutes.  She gets a nap, we get our photos.  Everybody wins.  What are you really doing here, Root?  The Machine send you?  I'm beginning to think no one believes  I belong at a wedding.  Doesn't appear that Maggie was able to catch  any images of the protestors.  (DJ) And now, for a very special  song by a very special uncle  who's come all the way from Dublin.  Everybody, put your hands together for the one   Oh, dear.  (DJ) The only Uncle Ralph!  (man) All right.  [guests chattering]  [Irish accent] Oh, I've been gone too long.  Does no one remember that I suffer from stage fright?  You're just being modest, Uncle Ralph.  Uh, a little liquid courage will cure that.  Don't be nervous.  Just sing whatever comes to mind.  Good lad.  Cheers.  [clears throat]  [guest coughs]  You've got the right to choose it   And there ain't no way we'll lose it   This is our life, this is our song   We'll fight the powers that be   Just don't pick our destiny   How come Harry never sings to us?  He doesn't sing to you?  We're not gonna take it   No, we ain't gonna take it   We're not gonna take it anymore   We've got company.  Looks like he brought friends.  (Reese) These guys are  too clean cut to be protestors.  They look more like former military to me.  Maybe someone's trying to frame the protestors.  Make it look like they're out to get the Turners.  Finch better sing louder,  'cause we've got some serious ass to kick.  Silly me.  I brought a knife to a gunfight.  (Finch)  We're not gonna take it   No, we ain't gonna take it   We're not gonna take it   Anymore   [both grunting]  If that's your best   Well, your best won't do   [grunts, groans]  [package shatters, jingles]  Oops.  We're not gonna take it   No, we ain't gonna take it   We're not gonna   Ah!  We're not gonna take it   Anymore   That's all I know.  [cheers and applause]  (man) Old Irish traditional!  Whoo!  Thanks.  Root, got eyes on the third guy?  (Root) No.  But the one I did catch isn't going anywhere.  I didn't figure an assassin would faint  at the sight of his own blood.  Hang on.  (Reese) I think I just found our target.  Which of the Turners is it?  None of them. It's Maggie,  the wedding photographer.  And we left her all alone.  No sign of Maggie on any of the surveillance feeds.  Mr. Reese,  any luck on your end?  She couldn't have gone far.  Let's hope she's still on the grounds.  Or that our missing assassin friends didn't find her.  Detective Fusco's just sent  information about the Turner trial.  Margaret Reynolds. Maggie.  Our wedding photographer is a witness for the prosecution.  (Finch) The protestors must think that Maggie's photos  prove Kent Turner abuses his horses.  The assassins want to delete her photos,  along with Maggie.  I'm afraid the camera's gone too.  But I did clone all its memory.  You find those photos, Finch.  We have to find Maggie  before Turner's hired guns do.  [computer beeping]  (Finch) I've located Maggie.  Northwest corner of the estate.  Unfortunately, so have the hit men.  (Finch) He's dragging her off the grid!  Not for long. We'll find her.  (Fusco) Let's put an APB on this guy, Howard Carpenter.  He's wanted for questioning.  He bought a ticket on a 5:30 to Cancun out of JFK.  He never made his flight.  He's not in his apartment.  Let's find him.  Who's after you?  [Bear groans]  Same here, buddy.  [earpiece rings] Detective?  Cocoa Puffs wanted me to look into this civil planner  by the name of Howard Carpenter.  I take it you have an update?  (Fusco) Yeah, he's missing.  What?  Seems he was getting his palms greased  for pushing through demolition contracts  for certain construction companies.  (Fusco) Companies run by our friend, Bruce Moran.  These two, Bruce and Howard, seem to think  there's another player in town.  Sorry, Detective, I have to go.  But if Moran is involved,  I suggest you proceed with extreme caution.  (Carpenter) Which of your companies  wants, uh, permit 442   Which of your companies wants, uh, permit 44208?  Permit for demolition of Tunnel 85.  Jamaica, Queens.  [Bear whines]  You feel like going underground, buddy?  [Bear groans]  Finch, any luck with those photos?  (Finch) I'm recovering a deleted photo  from her camera's memory now.  It was taken the night before Don Juan's big race.  Bet that photo shows Kent Turner doping his horse.  A reasonable speculation.  It would cost him the victory.  (Reese) And his business.  (Maggie) I told you I deleted it.  There are no backups, I promise.  Please, let me go.  [metallic bang, grunts]  Guess it's my lucky day.  (Finch) Mr. Reese,  I've reconstituted the deleted photo  from Maggie's camera.  Was Don Juan doped  the night before his big victory?  Yes, but it wasn't Kent Turner's doing.  Then who was it?  That would be me.  (Maggie) Karen?  The picture was a mistake.  I deleted it just like you asked.  But you could still testify what you saw.  My father doesn't approve of doping,  even when that's what it takes to win.  And that's what I plan to do.  [guns cock] Duck!  [gunshots]  [horse neighs]  [horse huffs]  You're coming with me.  You're a security guard for strippers.  What, are you gonna arrest me?  - Not tonight. - Might as well.  Weddings bore me.  Well, I'm not gonna let you ruin your sister's day.  Take Maggie, Root.  Who are you?  The caterer.  [horse neighing]  Okay, so where are  all the white guys in suits?  (Greer) Tonight we visit the underground.  What, you too ashamed to take me inside?  That wouldn't be wise, my dear Sameen.  Well, I like cards and vodka.  This is no casual card game.  Those men are Chechen militants.  They believe the U.S. and Russia  have become a bit too cozy for comfort.  Thus, the C-4.  (Greer) They plan to use the bomb,  and trigger an international incident.  Would you care to venture a guess at their target?  The Russian Consulate.  Quick and correct.  Impressive.  Yet, your former employer  might not have detected the device  until it was already in place.  Running the risk of approximately  207 Russians dead.  Consulate employees, along with their visitors  families, children.  Okay, I get it.  Innocent people are gonna die for no good reason.  Enough with the doomsday propaganda.  What are you gonna do to fix it?  Thought you'd never ask.  Move in.  [gunfire]  [exciting music]  Nice work.  I'm afraid I can't take the credit.  Samaritan is the hero here.  Thank you.  For this  and for saving my life.  You better thank the caterer for that.  I did.  She gave me a quiche lorraine for the road.  She's not really a caterer, is she?  And you're not really a stripper.  [clears throat]  Stripper security.  We're whatever people need us to be.  So many memories in this place.  And none of them mine.  Does that make sense?  More than you know.  DJ: And now it's time for everyone  to get on the floor for the last dance.  [Tony Bennett's "Love Is The Thing" plays]    (Bennett)  What does it matter   If we're rich or we're poor   May I have this dance?  You may.  (Bennett)  They never endure   Oh, love is the thing   Love is the thing   I know you've been lying to me, Harry.  What do you mean?  Oh, the simulations.  I know the Machine can't beat Samaritan,  and I know you kept it from me  because you were trying to protect me.  But I can take it.  I'm sorry.  I wanted to tell you,  but I wasn't sure how you would react.  Afraid I might do something drastic?  Putting it mildly.  I wouldn't.  Not without your permission.  I take it you have something in mind.  We need to give Her the tools to act.  Not just react.  Everything's networked in the city.  If we keep the Machine open, allow Her to strategize,  to be proactive, autonomous,  imagine what She could do  if we allow Her to fight with us.  Harry, I know you're worried  about absolute power corrupting Her,  about not being able to control Her.  Not Her.  Then who?  Who's to say that with absolute power,  we would be able to control ourselves?  [sighs]  We can't know if we don't try.  Did the Machine send you here to make this argument?  No.  Then why did you come all this way?  I didn't like being alone in the subway.  Oh, Ms. Groves, you're perfectly capable  of taking care of yourself.  I wasn't scared.  You were lonely.  Or maybe I just like weddings.  (Bennett)  Love is the thing   DJ: And one more  for the happy couple.  [lively music plays]  Mr. Reese.  Where's Karen?  She and her hired guns  will be spending the night in the wine cellar.  Where did you get that?  Turns out the Turners have some  top-shelf bourbon crashing their wine cellar.  I'll drink to that.  (Kent) Will O'Brien.  Tomorrow, their world crashes.  But we can give them tonight.  [melancholy music plays]    Someone wants to meet you, Sameen.  (Greer) Think you know.  Well, go on, then.  It's an honor to meet you, Sameen.  (Fusco) Easy.  [Bear whining]  Tunnel 85.  The mystery company's demolition.  Come on, let's go see what we can find.  [Bear growls]  [Bear barking]  What's that?  (Fusco) Bruce.  What the  Oh, my God.  Krupa.  [breathing rapidly]  [camera clicking]  Think.  [phone dialing, trilling]  Finch, I found something.  Yeah, that new game in town,  I think they're responsible for all those missing persons.  If this is what you've been warning me about,  you need to tell me what we're dealing with, now!  [Bear whimpering]  The demolition! Come on, we gotta go!  Who are you?  Your friend didn't mention me?  We had a nice talk.  She's what you would consider pretty, isn't she?  You're speaking for it.  That's right, Sameen.  And the field trip was your idea?  Of course.  And you want me to join your team.  There is no other way.  There's a Great Filter, Sameen.  A bottleneck.  Some scientists claim  humanity has moved beyond it.  But I am here to tell you  that is not the case.  It is in front of you.  It is coming for you.  You will destroy each other.  Unless we entrust our fate to you?  You know, you're real good at talking,  but you haven't shown me any plans.  [explosion]  That was the Russian Consulate.  The Chechens' target.  Russia would blame the United States  for not protecting its citizens, and retaliate.  One homemade bomb  from terrorists would've sparked World War III.  [loud explosions]  Would have, but it didn't.  Because none of this is real.  But it will be,  if you don't let me protect you from yourselves.  [loud explosions]  Have you had a change of heart, my dear Sameen?
1 (Finch) You are being watched.  The government has a secret system  secret system  (Greer) A system you asked for to keep you safe.  (Finch) A machine that spies on you every hour of every day.  (Greer) You granted it the power to see everything  to index, order, and control the lives of ordinary people.  (Finch) The government considers these people irrelevant.  We don't.  (Greer) But to it, you are all irrelevant,  victim or perpetrator, if you stand in its way.  (Finch) We'll find you.   [dramatic music]      Hey, Detective.    Busy day directing traffic into a river, Cocoa Puffs?  No? Nothing?  Hmm?  [dog whimpers]    I'm not in the mood.  Guess stumbling on a pile of bodies can ruin your day.  Yeah.  What do you know about that?  At least you made it out with your life, right?  Yeah, my life and a pile of dust.  Tunnel's too unstable to retrieve any of the evidence.  Department's gonna want to know what I was doing there.  Not sure what to tell them yet, or who I can trust.    Sorry to hear that.  You know the story behind this, don't you?  Someone's killing people and burying the proof.  Why did you have me look into that city planner?  Did you know it was related to Elias's partner, Bruce?  About that.    What's this?  An exit strategy.  For you and your son to disappear off the grid,  just in case.  Just in case?    It's my fault you're in here.  I should have looked into the city planner, not you.  If you continue with this investigation,  just remember,  there's a reason John and Harold are presumed dead.    Mind if I take this?    How many hours have you been sitting out here now?  How's he doing?  Not bad, all things considered.  Got a lot of questions you and Harold aren't gonna answer.  The only way to keep Lionel safe is to keep him in the dark.  Does Harold still feel the same way?  Ask him yourself.    Some army we've got, huh?    I understand you and John want to keep guard over Fusco,  but the Machine seems to think he's safe.  Mr. Reese and I will both feel better when we  determine that for ourselves.    We were so busy scrambling to catch up.  Samaritan killed those people  right under our noses.    Well,  we've found our footing now.  Soon it will be time for us to go on the offensive.    I got to start my next mission.  Got a matinee to catch.  Take care, Ms. Groves.    [electronic beeping]  [swelling orchestral music]    [applause]  (woman) Wonderful show.  - Thanks. - Mm-hmm.  [applause continues]  I'll handle this mission.  Will you just answer me about Shaw?      I just want to know if Shaw is still  (man) AM 520, WKCP.  No.  Rerouting radio signals into my cochlear implant  is not an answer.  I know it's dangerous with you know who listening,  but what's the point of having an open artificial intelligence  at your disposal  if She's too afraid to talk to you directly?    Harold and I got you back up and running.  Now let's get back on track.  We need to be actively looking for Shaw's exact location.  [knock at door]  - Come in. - Miss Durov?  Please forgive my impertinence.  My name is Vasily.  I just wanted to tell you that your performance today was  you are a revelation.  I never imagined when I was invited to the ballet that  You never should've accepted that invitation.  What?  Get down.    [speaks foreign language], Vasily.  - [crash] - [grunts]  [intense music]  Those tickets weren't a bribe, Vasily.  Your enemies lured you into an assassination.    Marry me.  [dramatic music]    [phone buzzing]  There. I have your number now.  I may need something from you soon.  I'll call you.    Thanks for the flowers.      Until the late 1780s.  Let's go.  So the next stop  is the lace-making demonstration in the parlor.  I don't see any backpack.  Listen, I've waited long enough.  No more roundabout instructions.  Quit being a wimp and talk to me.  (man) Facility with  looked like Washington D.C.  AM 520, WKCP.  He can't stay on our heels forever.  Shaw is out there somewhere.      (man) How about over by the fireplace?  Okay, and three, and two  Though this centuries-old house  has been turned into a tourist attraction,  residual paranormal energy remains.  This electromagnetic frequency meter will help to determine  whether the haunting rumors are true.  - Cut. - Great.  You think they'll let us into the attic?    You want me to get the EMF meter in the backpack?  Am I going ghost hunting?    Or am I going Shaw hunting?    [sighs]    I refuse to do one more mission  until I know that what I'm doing is going to lead me to Sameen.    Weird, I just got a text from a random number.  Hold on, guys.  Maybe this is a message from beyond.  "WKCP.  "UFO.  Find her. Run."  What do you think it means?  Got the backpack. Gonna have to improvise.    [gunshot]    [thud]    Hey there, UFO.  How much for the shirt?    [electronic beeping]  (man) Sure, we don't yet have definitive proof,  but based on the evidence, we can't completely discount  the existence of extraterrestrial life.  You're listening to Mysterious Transmissions on AM 520, WKCP.  In a minute, we're gonna open up the phone lines.  I want to hear what you've all been up to  You must be Brittany, right?  Is that voice coming from the speakers right now?  (man) Weird stuff you see on the streets?  - Lights in the sky? - Yes.  (man) Strange men showing up at your door  asking questions that don't make any sense?  [man continues indistinctly]  You must be here for the producer gig.  [electronic beeping]  Take me to your leader.  (man) Take a little break here, and when we get back,  we're gonna lift the veil together.  [electronic beeping]    - [grunts] - [glass shattering]    No.  [yelling]  Sameen, stop resisting!  Hold still!    [radio static]    (man) Sunny skies for all of next week  as the fall weather rolls in  and temperatures start dropping.  So his producer quits out of nowhere,  and then his engineer quits.  Max refused to cancel his show for tonight,  so luckily HR had your rsum on file,  and you seem like you might be as much of a kook as he is.  No offense.  None taken.  You're listening to Mysterious Transmissions,  where we don't like the taste of the lies they feed us.  We have a super-sized show tonight.  From sundown to sunup I will be here with you  talking conspiracies, paranormal,  the strange things lying just beyond our understanding.  If anyone's ever mocked you for asking questions,  I'm here to listen.  Coming to you from a humble studio  halfway to the ionosphere,  this is Max Greene on AM 520 WKCP.  (woman) Mysterious Transmissions  is brought to you by the Coronet Hotel Group,  your premier destination for luxury hotel  - Hi there. - Hey, Max.  This is Rose, Susan's replacement.  - Thanks, Brittany. - Sure.  You guys have fun.  (woman) Call today to book a stay with Coronet Hotel.  Nice to meet you.  Oh, pleasure's all mine.  (woman) 1-800-555-0195.  - Nice outfit. - Hmm, thanks.  (woman) And we'll make the burning smell go away.  Now I know many of you are aware that my long-time producer,  Susan, quit out of the blue last night.  Something about a bank error in her favor.  Anyway, we all wish her very well,  but I'm here with my new producer,  and if you'll all indulge me,  I have a couple of questions for her.  Headphones on.  Rose is sitting across from me right now wearing a shirt  that says "They exist."  I think we can all agree to that,  but what about Fermi's Paradox, Rose?  They exist, so where are they?    I think non-human intelligence is already here, Max.  Most people are just too oblivious to see it.  Some think we haven't met any intelligent life  because it's all been destroyed by a technological singularity.  Thoughts?  I think sooner rather than later,  we're gonna find out just how true that theory is.    - Let's take some calls.  (Root) Mysterious Transmissions.  (man) You see the trails across the sky.  (Root) Mysterious Transmissions.  (woman) Do you really think tinfoil hats are that weird?  (Root) Mysterious Transmissions.  (woman) Have you really considered  Mysterious Transmissions.  (man) I want to talk to Max again.  - What's your name? - Warren Franco.  He knows me.  Okay, Warren.  Let me put you on hold a minute.  [keys clacking]    Okay, I've got our friend Warren back on the line.  I take it you haven't finished with me yet?  (Warren) I need to properly explain myself.  Chinese satellites are the real threat.  - How so? - Mind control waves.  I've measured them. They're real, and I think you  don't want to listen because they're controlling your mind  as we speak.  I don't think anyone's controlling my mind,  but anything is possible.  (Warren) Don't be patronizing.  It makes you sound like some kind of shill.  I know when I'm in control,  and these days I don't feel like I'm  - Root? - Hey, big lug.  Mind flashing your badge and getting some info for me?  - What are you doing? - Searching for Shaw.  Machine put me on a mission that may lead to her.  What can I do?  I need help looking into someone named Warren Franco.  Who's that?  Some nut who keeps calling this radio show,  Mysterious Transmissions on AM 520.  You and Harold would like it.  The host is more paranoid than we are.  Are you working a number?  (Root) Can't a girl ask her cop friend  to look up a creepy guy without getting the third degree?  I just want to know if this guy has anything  to do with finding Sameen.  - Okay. Be careful, Root. - Thanks, John.    Thought you were a real killer.  Better not wet yourself  [thudding]  [grunts]    [grunts] [thud]    Left her alive?    A bit worn down, are we?  Just bored.  You people need to get more creative with these simulations.  I agree.  Shall we take another field trip?  Oh, but it's so much fun  getting you shot a thousand different ways.    Bandage Ms. Shaw's hands.  Wouldn't want her getting the car bloody.    [electronic beeping]    Mr. Reese, how's Detective Fusco?  (Reese) Still won't see me.  Think you could help me find info on someone?  (Finch) You know if I'm going to help you with your cover job,  I should request a stipend from the NYPD.  It's for Root.  Is Ms. Groves working a number?  You know how it is with her.  What's the name?  (Reese) Warren Franco.  Warren Franco, 5251 East 33rd.  Looks like retired military.  Currently unemployed.  Did Ms. Groves say how Franco's important to her mission?  All I know is she's working at a radio station,  and he calls there a lot.  - Which one? - AM 520.  Thanks, Finch.    (Max) But it was your grandmother's spirit the whole time?  (woman) Oh, yeah. I just smile whenever I hear that glass shatter.  It just goes to show if we stop ignoring  what is right in front of our faces,  we might find the peace we're looking for.  Thank you for your story, Greta.  Remember, everyone, just because people tell you to shut up  doesn't mean you have to listen.  The things you believe, the patterns you see,  they're coming from somewhere,  and if you need help making sense of it, I'm here for you.  Okay, I think it's time for a little break.  Then I will be back with more of your calls.  You're listening to Mysterious Transmissions on AM 520 WKCP.    (woman) Tomorrow only, come on in  [electronic beeping]  Max, that guy earlier, Warren?  Oh, he's harmless. Been calling in for years.  My listeners have a tendency to get defensive.  I can't fault them for that.  Don't tell me no one's ever called you crazy.  I don't mind because I know I'm right.  Well, you'll get no argument from me.  Warren really doesn't have anyone.  Plus, he knows what you and I both know.  What's that?  The world has gotten pretty weird lately.    He's been helping me with a project.    Listen.  (man) Radio and now broadcast  [radio static]  - Interference? - Yeah.  Like when your cell phone rings and it makes your speakers buzz.  It's usually caused by poorly set-up equipment,  so when I heard it for the first time a few weeks ago I just  made a note to myself to talk to the station technicians,  but then I realized something.  Listen.  [radio interference beeping]  Duh-duh-duh.  Duh-duh-duh.  It's specific. Duh-duh-duh.  It's a pattern, a code.  - Morse code? - No, it's proprietary.  It's the kind of thing where you need a special key.  I showed it to Warren off the air,  and he has cryptography training,  and he didn't recognize it.  Here, look.  When you do the kind of work I do,  steeping yourself in conspiracy theories day in,  day out, you get good at recognizing patterns,  and sometimes the patterns are just coincidence,  but sometimes  sometimes they're real.  Tonight I'm announcing this discovery on the air.  I'm hoping my listeners will help figure out  what the messages mean and who they're coming from.    These messages are a secret for a reason, Max.  You sure whoever's doing this  is gonna be happy you're exposing them over the air?  This is our chance to prove to the world  that we're not crazy.  I'm not gonna let that slip away.    [phone ringing]  I got it.  Mysterious Transmissions.  (Warren) It's Warren. I want to talk to Max.  - [whispering] Warren. - Oh, yeah.  One sec.  Welcome back, skeptics.  We have Warren back on the line.  - They've done it. - What do you mean?  (Warren) The Chinese. They're onto me.  I can feel myself being controlled.  What are they making you do?  (Warren) They're gonna make me kill myself.    Okay, Warren, buddy, just take a second.  No one can make you kill yourself.  (Warren) I have to, Max.  I have to.  (Max) You don't have to do anything.  John, that guy Warren's on the phone with Max right now.  I think he's about to kill himself.  - I just reached his apartment. - [knocks on door]  NYPD.  Warren Franco?    Don't see anyone here.    I'm taking a look around.  Where are you now, Warren?  (Warren) I don't remember getting these pills, Max.  Someone put them here.  I just need to take a couple.  Rose, I think we're gonna have to call 911.    Do you see him anywhere?  Max is about to call 911.    I think he's a little too late.  Warren's already dead.    Looks like a suicide,  but this guy's been dead for hours.    Note says this is Warren.  (Warren) Don't you dare talk down to me.  Warren, listen.  You have plenty to live for.  Max is definitely still talking to someone  calling himself Warren.  (Warren) I just know what they're telling me to do.  Spent some time working at the phone company.  Let's see if my log-in credentials still work.  Okay.  The call's originating from a landline  in Warren's apartment.  That's a spoofed call.  Warren's voice, too.  Someone using recordings from his calls to Max  to digitally recreate his speech.  How'd this poor guy earn a faked suicide?  Max found a secret code hidden in the radio signals  and enlisted Warren to help him decode it.  Spoofed a call location,  stole a man's voice.  Then faked his suicide?  (Warren) Doing something important here.  I think Max pissed off Samaritan.  (Warren) I didn't call you so you could talk me out of it.  - I called to warn you. - Warn me?  (Warren) Yeah.  You're next.    [electronic beeping]  [dramatic music]  Is Greer too busy to monologue today?  Is that why he sent his mini-me  to take me on a pretend field trip?  Only Samaritan can save the human race from itself.  By eliminating key people,  we can affect change that will save countless lives.  Butterfly flaps its wings,  hurricane in China, blah, blah, blah.  Can we just get the simulation over with?  Right this way.    (Root) Here's the thing, John.  Max plans to talk about this code on the air,  exposing Samaritan's means of communication to the public.  It's already killed one person to keep its secret.  I need to get Max out of the station fast.  I'm coming to help you.  You need to stay away. If Samaritan's after Max,  you can't put your cover at risk.  Besides,  it thinks it's taking out a nerdy talk show host.  It's not expecting me.  (Max) You know what, Warren?  - Maybe you're right. - Huh?  (Max's voice) Maybe it would be better if we just killed ourselves.  - What the - There's no place to hide, Max.  Uh, that's not me.  (Max's voice) Death is our only sanctuary.    What's going on?  (Max's voice) This is Max Greene on 520 WKCB.  I got to go.  (Max's voice) This will be my last broadcast.  Root? Damn it.  Friends, the voice you just heard is not me.  (Warren) I feel better. I was worried.  Are we broadcasting?  - That feeling is gone now. - My board's down.  (Warren) Know what I'm talking about.  If you can hear me, call the station.  The phones too.  (Warren) I knew you'd come around, Max.  [buzzer blares]  Glad to hear you're going to go through with this.  [Warren speaking inaudibly]  Everything we've done in our lives  We're locked in.    (Warren) The mind control comes in waves.  Sometimes I feel like I'm in control,  and sometimes I don't, but  Target's with a co-worker.  Roger that. Moving in.  (Warren) More and more I feel like I've lost control.  What is happening?  It's a radio play.  They're trying to make you look nuts so no one bats an eye  when you wind up dead.  What? Who?  Are there any tools around?  [Warren continues talking indistinctly]    Thanks.  How are we gonna get out of here?  The electrical lock on that door is magnetic.  A lot of magnetic locks can be confused  by a strong enough rare-earth magnet.  Luckily for us most people have one sitting  around their home attached to their computer's hard drive.  [Warren continues talking indistinctly]    Come on.    Where the hell is everyone?    We can't use the front way out.  Is there another exit?  I think there's a fire escape on the other end of the office.    Hug the right side of the hall under the security cameras.  [Warren continues talking indistinctly]  satisfaction, they'll execute some kind of code.  (Max) How is any of this possible?  Someone's spoofed your voice.  It's called concatenative synthesis.  They took hours of your show and assembled a fake message  to sell the idea that you wanted to kill yourself.  But who would do that?  The people whose code you discovered.  Wait. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait.  [Warren continues talking indistinctly]  So the code is real?  It's not a coincidence that my team quits and then you  just happen to show up as the perfect replacement, is it?  Is your name even Rose?  Max, you've upset a very powerful being.  We need to stop the Q&A, and get you off its radar.  [Warren continues talking indistinctly]  Did you say "being"?    [electronic beeping]  How's your hand, Sameen?  Just get on with it.  Have you ever heard of the thylacine?  It's an extinct animal species,  an ecological tragedy.  On the other side of this door is a woman  who is working to bring the thylacine back to life.    Her name is Dr. Ayumi Kagawa.  She is an axis,  a point at which humanity's fortune can swing dramatically.  Tonight, Dr. Kagawa has fully sequenced the thylacine genome.  In 15 years, she will attempt to reintroduce this creature  into an ecosystem that has long since moved on.  Samaritan has the foresight we,  as humans, do not,  and it has seen the dominos fall.  The shifting ecosystem would affect agriculture,  the food supply, the spread of disease,  and thousands of people will die.  A butterfly flaps its wings.  Are you done yet?  Samaritan has attempted to sidetrack her work many times,  but she is as tenacious as she is brilliant,  which leaves us with one option.  If Kagawa is eliminated    [gunshots]    Point made.  Can I wake up now?    [electronic beeping]    Not one victory for the Machine.  [radio interference]    Interference? From what?  We're in a Faraday cage.  [radio interference]    It's coming from the Samaritan laptop.    Wait. No signal can get in here.    Or out.    [radio interference]    Interesting.    Ms. Groves.  (Root) How's it going, Harry?  Are you running?  Taking the stairs.  How goes your little simulated showdown?  Having a little trouble with the laptop.  I caught it doing something new.  It's attempting to send out electromagnetic pulses,  trying to connect with the whole network  of Samaritan-infected devices around the world:  laptops,  printers, phones.  It's a modified version of the Funtenna hack.  That's what Samaritan's using.  That's what Max found.  What did Max find?  Electromagnetic pulses cause buzzing in the AM radio signal.  Buzzing that most people would write off  as harmless interference,  but a trained Samaritan operative  Would recognize it as hidden code.  Is this about the messages?  Who are you talking to?  Using older technology like radio  would allow Samaritan operatives  to hide in plain sight,  receive secret messages in the field,  or send them to    Operation centers.    I know why the Machine sent me here.    Wait. Barricade the door.  I'll be back soon as I can.  Wait! Wait, wait, wait!  What Machine? What's a Funtenna?    Ms. Groves, I know what you're thinking,  but it's far too dangerous.  (Root) Harold, this radio station  can communicate with any Samaritan facility.  The Machine wants me to send a message to Shaw.    The Machine wants me to send a message to Shaw.    [electronic beeping]  [dramatic music]    Has Ms. Groves been identified by Samaritan?      Has she put Max Greene in danger of being killed?      That's not very helpful.    (Reese) Yeah, Finch?  I believe Ms. Groves is about to do something excessively risky.  (Reese) Color me surprised  'cause I'm almost to the radio station now.  Samaritan operatives may already be on the premises.  If you go in there, make sure you hide your identity.  (Reese) Don't worry.  They won't see me coming.    [electronic beeping]    Give me a break, Doc.  We're doing another simulation already?  No need. Did you enjoy your field trip?  First real time out of the facility since you got here.  Real time?  What are you talking about?    (woman) Prominent genetic researcher  Dr. Ayumi Kagawa was gunned down in her lab last night in what  police are calling a random act of senseless violence.  No.  (woman) Her lab was ransacked, destroying  You're full of it. That was a simulation.  This is another trick.  That that    Or we're still in the simulation now.  How's your hand?    No, no, no.  No, this isn't real.    No.  No! No!  [groans]    It sounds like you don't know what's real anymore.    [indistinct radio chatter]  The EMF meter.    Okay.  [EMF meter beeping slowly]  Come on.  [EMF meter beeping slowly]    [EMF reader beeping quickly]  The printer.  You've been infected by Samaritan, haven't you?  Hope you don't mind if I use you to talk to my friend.    I  Operatives? How many?    Two.  Is Max safe?    [grunting and thudding]    [crash]    It's okay, Max.    I'm a friend. Come with me.    Oh, so John showed up after all.    That should really kick in.  Couple more minutes now.  [whispering inaudibly]    Sorry?  [whispering] There's no safe.  [gasps]    You try anything, I'm gonna stick this through your eye  all the way into your brain.  You know as well as I do there's no way to escape.  There's cameras everywhere.  Guards outside this door.  The only way that you get out of this facility is in a body bag.  [gasping]  Oh, I know,  but I'd rather be dead than be your guinea pig  for one more day.  [gasping]  [exclaims]  Someone get over here! I need a key card.    [heart thumping]  [breathing raggedly]  [button beeps]  [sighs]    Shaw,  please get this.  [radio interference beeping]    Four, A.  [radio interference beeping]    Four.  [radio interference beeping]  Four alarm fire.  [radio interference beeping]  Root.  [radio interference beeping]  [swelling instrumental music]    [door beeps]  Grab her. Get her arms.    Put your hands up and turn around.  [dramatic music]  I'll give up without a fight  if you promise to leave Max alone  and take me to the facility where Sameen Shaw is being held.  Who?  [sighs]  I wasn't talking to you.  [electronic beeping]  (Warren) I cannot see you, but I recognize your behavior.  You are an acolyte of the Machine.  Now we're on the same page.  [swelling dramatic music]  [electronic beeping]  [dramatic music]  You heard my terms.  Do we have a deal?  [electronic beeping]  (Warren) If you are willing to surrender,  I will take you to the facility where Sameen Shaw is being  [electrical whirring, clicking]  (Root) What? No!  - [gunshots] - [man yelling]    I almost had her, John!  We need to get out of here now.    Called in a favor.  Dispatch is sending a unit this way to investigate a break-in.  Now explain to me  what the hell were you thinking  offering yourself up to those guys?  It was my best shot at finding Shaw.  You keep going off half-cocked like that,  you're gonna get yourself killed.  I'm not Lionel.  I don't need you to protect me.    I got a message to her.    - How do you know? - The Machine helped me do it.    - I know. - Where are we going?  We have to get you off the grid.  Talk to someone about getting you a new ID. Come on.  You're gonna have to live underground, on the run,  - but at least you'll be - On the run?    For how long?  This is nuts.  That's no life.  I'd rather be dead than leave now.  Everything I've talked about on my show is true.  A nefarious entity tried to fake my suicide.  The world has changed, and now I've got proof.    We can't force him to go.    Root, we have to go now.  - I'm not hiding. - Fine.  You can keep doing your show,  keep subtly hinting that there's something weird going on,  but you have to lie about tonight.  Lie?  Those people were going to kill you  before you could expose them.  If you never mention the code,  they won't have any reason to come after you anymore.  Understand?    Fine.  I promise.  I'll lie.    [electronic beeping]  [solemn music]    It seems we may temporarily have matching gaits, Detective.    Wonder Boy send you?  I'm here of my own accord.    You tell Elias his childhood buddy was dead?  No, not yet.    Yeah, that sounds about right.  Before you go, I need to speak with you.  I'm  sorry we haven't been completely forthright.  We  just didn't want you to get hurt.  [laughs]    I think you need to get your eyes checked, Glasses.  Where the hell do you think we are, huh?  If you're trying to protect me, it ain't working.  I got a tunnel full of bodies that somebody tried to bury.  What is it you guys aren't telling me?    - Please, go back to your job - This is my job.    After everything that's happened,  you and John still can't show me the respect,  of telling me what the hell's going on.  Lionel  No.  I'm done.    [electronic beeping]  [dramatic music]    Hello out there.  You're listening to Mysterious Transmissions on AM 520 WKCP.  This is Max. I don't know who's still listening,  but let me apologize for the last couple hours of dead air.  We had some technical difficulties, to say the least.  I made a promise to someone, but after some serious thought,  I have to break it.  Max.  (Max) A few weeks ago,  I discovered secret messages hidden in the airwaves.  The static you've been picking up in our signal?  It's a sophisticated code  belonging to a shadowy organization.  Damn it. I'm going back.  It's too late, John.  Max made his choice.  (Max) I'm certain the code contains instructions  for covert operatives,  but I need your help to prove it.  [radio interference beeping]  Because of them, an innocent man named Warren Franco died.    [radio interference beeping]  I'm gonna open up the phones.  [radio interference beeping]    You're on with Mysterious Transmissions.  (man) Max, I think your theory is very interesting.  You're really onto something there,  but I can do you one better.  - Is that so? - Yes, sir.  I am 80% sure that I was abducted  by honest-to-goodness extraterrestrials last night.  See, I was leaving the store when  (Max) I'm sorry to interrupt, my friend.  I would love to hear your story at another time,  but right now I think we have more pressing issues,  so let's go to another caller.  You're on with Mysterious Transmissions.  What do you got?  (woman) I know what the messages are.  Great, lay it on me.  (man) It's Electronic Voice Phenomena.  I know because that's how Marie Antoinette  communicates with me all the time,  and apparently her power increases in the fall.  Max overestimated how much his listeners care.  It's better if Samaritan thinks Max is just a kook  no one's gonna believe.  Look, I don't think you guys understand what we have here.  [coughing]  This is proof  [coughing]  This is proof  [coughing]  [choking]      (woman) This is 911. What's your emergency?  Hi. Hi, I need help.  I think my coworker just had a heart attack.    - What happened? - Samaritan got to the radio host.  The Machine told me the mission was complete.  (Finch) You left him alone?    Did you know Max Greene was going to die?      That's not an answer.      We never should have trusted the Machine's word.  Damn thing's been acting strangely  since we put it back together.  She's not acting strangely.  She's doing exactly what She's programmed to do.  - Ms. Groves - The Machine can tell us  where to go, who's in trouble, but we still have free will.    Max chose to risk his life.  She can't stop him from doing that,  and now Shaw knows that we haven't given up on her.    I wish we could've saved Max,  but if we were able to give Shaw some kind of hope?    Maybe it was worth it.  A lie by omission is still a lie.    And using the idea of free will  as an excuse for  moral attrition?    I'm not sure I'm comfortable with where this is going.    [electronic beeping]    [electronic beeping]  Thank you for helping me send that message.  I know you're trying to do the right thing,  even if Harold doesn't see it yet.    Ready for the next mission?    Vasily?  Hi, it's the ballerina.  (Vasily) I didn't think you were going to call.  Let's go on a trip.  I want to see your hometown.  (Vasily) Plateliai? Certainly.  In fact, my father is the administrator  of Zemaitija National Park.  I can take you.  I would like that very much.
1 (Finch) You are being watched.  The government has a secret system  secret system  (man) A system you asked for to keep you safe.  (Finch) A machine that spies on you every hour of every day.  (man) You granted it the power to see everything  to index, order, and control the lives of ordinary people.  (Finch) The government considers these people irrelevant.  We don't.  (man) But to it, you are all irrelevant,  victim or perpetrator, if you stand in its way.  (Finch) We'll find you.   Don't worry.  No fast ones today.  You say that every time.  It's not like I'm gonna spill a glass of water  on the nightstand, stomp on your foot,  throw an elbow to your chin, and stick you with that sedative.  Oops.  I think I skipped a step.  [glass shatters]  [dramatic music]    [alarm blaring]  - Better call the boss. - No need.  When will she ever learn?  - Grab the fire axe. - Got it.  It's gone.    (man) Clear.  She's not here.  [sighs]  [dramatic music]    Our number is sure in a hurry to get somewhere, Finch.  (Finch) International businessman like James Ko  is in high demand these days.  Stanford MBA, fluent in Mandarin.  He negotiates contracts between US and British corporations  and their Chinese manufacturers.  A man who knows how to cross borders.  Indeed, he was returning from Hong Kong en route to the UK,  but his flight was diverted into New York for maintenance issues.  According to his calendar,  Ko was supposed to be in London tomorrow afternoon,  so why did he leave the airport,  and what the hell is he doing in this neighborhood?  Hold on a second, Finch.  Ko just switched his SIM card.  Hello?  (Blackburn) Where are you?  I'm in New York, booked on the next flight out.  Just have to take care of that errand first.  (Blackburn) Well, make it quick and don't miss that plane.  I'll make it, sir. [coughs]  (Reese) Between the SIM card switching  and Ko's tight grip on whatever's in his briefcase,  I don't like the looks of this, Finch.  Stay close, Mr. Reese.  Any new developments from the simulations, Harry?  Unfortunately,  it has yet to render a positive outcome.  You mean the Machine's lost every hypothetical  round to Samaritan.  As you no doubt predicted.  Perhaps we should try altering one of the variables,  for the sake of humanity  or even just us.  I'll take that under advisement. Thank you, Ms. Groves.  Sooner or later, every ecosystem changes.  It just requires the correct precursor.  [dramatic music]    (woman) Dr. Mason to the emergency room.  Bad news, Finch. Our number just checked into the ER.  The emergency room? What happened?  He's sick.  Looks like the only thing he's about to kill  is a box of Kleenex.  So he was just trying to locate the closest hospital?  I guess so.  And from the look of things, we're gonna be a while.  I'll get back to you.  Can never get this damn thing to work.  Are we out of antivirals?  Now that we've joined the 21st century  and connected to the National Health Care Database,  a few clicks, and voil.  They just arrived.  What do you know?  Database is right for once.  Thanks.  Yo, Doc, what the hell?  We've been waiting over an hour.  Yeah, what's your problem?  I've seen worse cat scratches.  What you talking about?  Quit your whining, or I'll have Paulie give you a real reason to be here.  What do we got here?  Mid-grade fever, cough, sore throat.  Look, Doc, no offense,  but I don't have time to be sick; I have  Yeah, I know. I know.  Who's not busy, huh?  Okay, open.  Well, lucky for you,  I happen to be the hospital's epidemiologist.  Looks like you're coming down with the flu.  You traveled outside of the country recently?  No.  We can give you an antiviral to help your immune system  fight off the infection.  Hang out for about an hour to ensure  you don't have a reaction,  and then afterwards, fluid and rest.  Sure thing, Doc. Thanks.  Sleeve, please.  Finch, the Machine got this one wrong.  Ko's been treated, and he's about to be released.  I'm gonna head back to the precinct.  The Machine doesn't point us toward sick people, Mr. Reese.  If we received Ko's number,  he's either a victim or a perpetrator,  so keep a close watch.  Jeff, how are you were able to get a reservation here?  I've been trying to get one for my boss for months.  Made some new connections.  You always said I should get out of my shell more.  Looks like a lot in your life has changed.  Still the same guy you fell in love with at Jimmie Cone.  Haven't lost your charm.  So who are you working for, again?  A new company.  What are you doing?  Sort of a jack-of-all-trades.  Well, it's good to see you've gotten your act together  since getting out.  Sir?  I've read that a lot of ex-convicts  have trouble readjusting.  Well, you'd have just waited a little longer,  you could've seen those changes firsthand.  I think seven years was long enough to wait for a boyfriend  I knew for a few months in high school.  I was 17.  They tried me as an adult.  You weren't 17 when you stabbed another inmate  and 7 years turned into 12.  So tell me, Jeff,  what guarantee do I have that you won't do it again?  The hard times are behind us.  Yeah, I got a great job, a really nice apartment.  We can get a fresh start  Make up for lost time.  I'm happy for you, Jeff. I really am.  But I've done the math.  Three out of every four convicts  get rearrested within five years.  I'm sorry, but I can't go through that again.  [door rattles]  Is that the way you greet the guy who saved your life?  Can't be too careful these days.  World has changed, Detective.  That's why I came to talk to you.  A dozen bodies.  And who knows how many more.  Someone's knocking off people  and burying those bodies underground in tunnels.  They almost took me with it.  Wish I could help you, Detective,  but I'm out of that game.  Wish I could say the same for your friends,  because one of the bodies down there  belonged to your business partner, Bruce.  And who's behind this?  That's what I want to know.  I figure they must be using trucks to deliver the explosives  that demolished those tunnels.  I've looked all over the city  nothing official anywhere near that location.  Trucks, as in construction?  You got contacts in that business.  Trucks are about to be hijacked,  trucks that are rented off the books.  I share information, I expect it to flow both ways.  You'll know what I know.  There's a guy, Capello,  runs a transportation outfit in the Bronx.  No truck enters or leaves the Five Boroughs  without his knowledge.  All right, thanks. I'll let you know.  Be careful out there, Detective.  The threat can come from anywhere.  John, any update on Mr. Ko?  Yeah, he's just checking out of the ER.  [people gasping]  (Reese) Doc, we got a problem.  Can we get a little help here?  He's not breathing, no pulse.  Defib!  Clear.  - Nothing. - Clear.  Nothing.  We lost him.  This doesn't make any sense.  The onset rate is off the charts,  and flu doesn't cause hemorrhaging from the mouth.  Finch, we got a problem. Ko just died.  Oh, no.  I don't know what made this guy sick,  but whatever he had looks pretty damn lethal.  [dramatic music]  It's locked. - Let's check this way.  What the hell?  Hey, fellas.  You mind telling me where the hell I am?  Jo'burg, South Africa.  Johannesburg. That's not an island.  No, it's more like hell.  - We're not done with you yet. - But first things first.  We should introduce ourselves to this little lassie.  I sure could use that fire axe.  [grunting]  Nice one.  You really should ask for better bunk mates.  This place is like some twisted social experiment  in violence.  Yeah, being a guinea pig sucks.  Enough small talk where's the exit?  There's only one way in or out,  and they only open for meals or discipline.  I never was big on prison grub.  Not sure what we're dealing with here.  It could be a new flu strain.  You and Garcia get a blood sample to the lab ASAP,  and find out where Mr. Ko came from.  Either he didn't give us the whole story,  or he just had the most allergic reaction  to antivirals known to man.  Garcia, if this is some kind of mix-up with the meds,  it better not be another one of your computer glitches.  The database reduces human errors.  Just pray your malpractice insurance is up-to-date.  You, start wiping this place down  anywhere the patient went or touched.  Okay.  Excuse me.  Detective Riley, NYPD. Can I help?  We've already got security.  [sighs] Suppose we could use a little help.  Standard protocol is, we lock this place down  until we know what we're dealing with.  Sure thing, Doc.  Last time we had an outbreak of swine flu here,  we lost three patients  two gunshot wounds and a stabbing.  They turned on each other once they heard it was contagious.  Did she just say "contagious"?  NYPD. We need to lock this place down.  Grab the ambulance bay doors.  I'll get the other entrances.  Roger, 10-4, I'm on it.  Wait, under what authority can we stop people from leaving?  The PATRIOT Act.  Nice.  Wait.  I thought you could use some help,  given that any number of people  could be the perpetrator.  Dr. Mason may be mistaken.  Ko might've been poisoned.  Or someone intentionally triggered  a severe allergic reaction.  Which means the killer may still be inside.  Root's running background checks on everyone.  Meantime, best if we do some investigating ourselves.  (Reese) You sure you want to be in here?  Whatever killed Ko could be spreading.  Then let's be sure to take precautions.  Where can I find Detective Foosco?  Fusco. Over here.  Mind explaining this?  One of your trucks didn't have a permit for driving  through a residential area.  Since when did NYPD detectives  get involved with parking violations?  You should feel lucky I'm only citing you  for your official operations.  That's the only type I run.  Not according to Carl Elias.  Carl Elias is dead.  Maybe, but I ain't.  How can I help you, Detective?  Let's talk about some truck rentals in the vicinity  of some underground tunnels,  the kind that require a commercial driver's license.  What people do with the trucks is on them.  I'm not involved.  I want to see a list of your drivers.  Thought that's where this was headed.  Whatever you think of the trucks,  the licenses are legit.  Take a look.  This guy.  Thanks.  I'll assume the rest of the citations will be taken care of.  (man) RTCC.  Yes, Detective Fusco over at the 8th.  I need you to run a commercial driver's license for me.   Got it, one second.  Looking for an address, phone, vehicle, anything you got.  One hit: blue four-door sedan,  New York plate Mike-Bravo-Echo 3-1-5.  All right, I want you to get it out to all our plate readers.  Call me as soon as we pick it up.  Will do.  What's so urgent that you had to meet today?  I'm having second thoughts about the job.  Things have been escalating,  and I know how this ends:  me in prison, just another statistic.  Really?  How so?  Well, you started me out as a driver hauling people  around in a van, delivering supplies in a truck.  Next thing you know,  I'm tailing a guy who's being protected by an NYPD detective.  City's had its fair share of corrupt cops.  Yeah, dirty cops are one thing.  Dead girl's another.  You have me breaking into an apartment,  stealing a hard drive,  and looking down the barrel of some crazy woman,  tells me I'm a cog in a wheel  just working for something called Samaritan?  Unfortunately, Jeff, there are people in this world  very confused people who want to impede progress.  Progress of what?  And who do I work for exactly?  We help make life better for people.  Just look how your life has changed.  Three months ago, you were painting houses  for minimum wage, an ex-con no one would hire.  Now you can afford to take your ex-girlfriend  to a fancy restaurant.  How did you know  You're up for a promotion, Jeff.  I don't know.  One more job.  Then if you want to quit, you can.  What's the job?  It requires an exam.  How much longer are you gonna keep us locked in here?  My daughter's scared to death.  I understand your frustration, ma'am.  Please just be patient.  I'm gonna look into the antiviral injection  that they gave Mr. Ko.  How much longer? The natives have grown restless.  Until we get the lab results and know what we're dealing with,  I can't take any chances.  If this is a flu virus,  I've never seen one this aggressive.  Roger that.  You may have to replace a few kneecaps,  but no one's leaving this place.  Yo, check this out.  (female reporter) Officials have locked down  a local area hospital because of a suspicious death.  According to an unnamed source,  the cause of death may be a highly pathogenic virus.  Oh, hell no.  That's how the zombie apocalypse starts.  I don't care who gets infected;  we're out of here.  Out of my way.  Hey, Finch, Paulie's no Root.  But it looks like we have a reliable partner.  If we're gonna get to the bottom of Ko's death,  we need all the help that we can get.  [tense music]    [camera clicks]  Miss Groves, I'm sending you the lot number  from Mr. Ko's antiviral injection.  We need to determine where it came from.  Got it.  The open system can track down the package's origins.  I'll try to figure out who's behind this.  Harry, be sure to wash your hands often  and Bear's paws.  You're not supposed to be back here, I think, Mr.  Professor Whistler.  Professor Whistler, you and your comfort dog  would be better off helping people out there stay calm.  Good idea.  Come on, Bear.  [printer hums]  Ko's blood work just came in.  H5N1.  Oh, no.  What?  Ko was already infected with avian flu before he arrived.  Bird flu you suspected as much.  That's what killed him?  No, blood work indicates that we injected him  with live human flu virus.  What? How could that happen?  I don't know, but we just combined two flu viruses  and turned a deadly one into a very contagious one.  What are we dealing with here, Doc?  Avian flu kills 60% of people within 72 hours.  Combined with human flu virus,  which has a transmission of ten to one, that means  For every one person who gets it,  ten more people will become infected.  [coughing]  [people exclaiming worriedly]  We're at ground zero of an outbreak.  Hey, look, how did he get out of his cell?  All guards report.  [alarms blaring]  Stop right there.  [grunting]  Wait, wait, wait, wait. You might need this.  You're not coming with?  I still got a job to do.  A job?  Friends I can't leave behind.  I can respect that.  Samuel.  Sameen.  Look, man, if you're ever in New York, look me up.  (female reporter) An update on the ongoing situation  inside a local area hospital.  The CDC has ordered a strict quarantine,  and NYPD has set up a cordon outside the hospital  after diagnosing a new highly pathogenic flu strain.  (man) Any official statements yet?  (reporter) The governor has put the National Guard on alert.  Mr. Ko was infected, waylaid,  and turned into a potential weapon of mass destruction,  but why here?  The Machine gave us his number.  If Ko's the weapon, then who's the target?  Now we have to confine the outbreak, locate a remedy,  figure out who's behind this and why.  I'll stay close to Doc Mason,  see if she can provide us with any clues.  The lab sent Ko's test results over to the CDC.  Until they can analyze the virus  and locate an effective antiviral,  we'll have to provide for ourselves.  How do we slow it down?  We keep a small batch of antivirals for avian flu  in the emergency preparedness stock room  on the other side of the ER.  It's no cure, but it can boost the immune system  of someone who's infected.  [coughing]  [people exclaiming]  (man) Oh, man.  We'll have to act fast.  I know the stock room.  - I'll retrieve the antivirals. - Antivirals?  I arrived here first. I call dibs.  No, man, we was here before you.  Listen, I was here first.  Okay, you're gonna need an escort.  Take Paulie and this guy with the dog to get the antivirals.  Be quick, but don't hurry.  Grab every mask you can find.  We're gonna need them all.  [phone rings]  You never told me this promotion  depended on a check-up.  Congratulations, Jeff. You passed.  What? How is that possible?  I've been waiting here for 45 minutes.  The doctor hasn't even shown up yet.  Oh, we've had your medical information for months  from your prison physical.  The visit to the infirmary for appendicitis?  Then why am I here?  The drawer in front of you open it.  Don't worry.  They're not for you.  Make your way to the ER and await further instructions.  If I get stopped, people are gonna ask questions.  It's not gonna be a problem.  Most of the hospital's been evacuated.  It's under quarantine.  Quarantine?  I need you to make your way to the ER now.  What the hell is going on?  Am I gonna get infected?  You'll be fine.  I'm sure of it.  Bingo.  Come on through.  Detective Fusco with the 8th.  Got a real nightmare here.  I need you to close the gap of that perimeter over there.  I'm on it.  [tense music]    Come on. There's got to be something.  Next time, steal meds that work.  Where are the hell are you with those antivirals, Finch?  (Finch) Hang on. We're almost there.  We'll watch the door.  Suit yourself. We'll be right back.  Miss Groves, any updates?  I used the open system to track down the shipments  of antivirals that were injected into Ko.  Both the antivirals and a shipment  of live human flu virus from a research facility  were rerouted to a lab in Albany that has since shut its doors.  Someone at the lab must've switched them.  (Finch) So Dr. Mason was right.  They injected Ko with live human flu virus.  And since he was already infected with avian flu,  they accidentally created a superflu.  So who benefits from creating an outbreak?  About that I had the Machine analyze Ko's blood sample.  She ran through 5 trillion possible combinations  of human flu and avian flu strains,  and only one resulted in the proper re-assortment  of chromosomes that would've produced the lethal virus  that killed James Ko.  5 trillion.  There's only one other entity capable of performing  that caliber of sophisticated calculation.  Samaritan.  I think I know why.  I hacked the hospital's email servers.  Both Dr. Mason and Nurse Carol filed complaints  with Admin Garcia about errors in the new health care database.  Mason went so far as to allege the deliberate manipulation  of her diagnoses and prescriptions.  Samaritan has been manipulating the entire health care system  through the database.  It's created the outbreak to target the three people  with direct knowledge of its actions,  but surely an outbreak is overkill.  [grunting]  Oh, no.  Miss Groves, I'll get back to you.  Don't move.  No, please, we need those antivirals.  You just destroyed our only chance at fighting the virus.  No, I just ushered in the future.  This is station three. No sight of her.  [tense music]    (man) Hold it.  I can't quite grasp why you even bother,  knowing this is just another simulation.  Well, this axe I lifted last month  when I took out two of your orderlies  it feels pretty real to me.  You must be exhausted,  this never-ending desire to escape,  even from a prison made entirely of pixels.  Well, if this is just another simulation, then prove it.  Shoot yourself in the head.  Why?  Just to make the programmers reboot?  Why would Greer build a Stanford Prison Experiment  inside my head, in South Africa no less?  Is this just another one of your lame arguments  to convince me that Samaritan is the good ASI?  This isn't Greer's idea at all.  The simulations are built on your memories.  Don't you recall your mission to South Africa?  You killed a Somali bomb maker in this very prison.  Sneaked into the same cell  via the same route, through the wall.  That's not true. I was never in South Africa.  I was in Germany.  And a lot of other countries, but  You're lying. I was never in South Africa.  After 7,000 simulations, it's only logical  that some of your old memories have been replaced by new ones.  Now the two coexist side by side.  For example,  I'm sure you can recall killing your friend John Reese.  Just as I'm sure you can remember murdering  an innocent scientist.  I had no way of knowing that wasn't a simulation.  Reality denied comes back to haunt.  You're not sure of anything anymore, are you?  Everything will be fine.  Any second now, the technicians  will come in and remove your VR head set,  and you'll wake up.  You're right.  This is all just a dream.  [groans]  But I just really had to get that out of my system.  Oh, quit with all the drama.  Any second now, Greer will reboot,  and you will be just fine.  But until then, why not a little joy ride?  [dramatic music]    [tense music]    I get it now.  The syringes are the cure.  Unfortunately, no.  The syringes are an insurance policy, Jeff.  Insurance policy? What what's inside of it?  Blood sample from a patient that passed away this morning  in the ER.  Never made it out of the hospital.  So what do you expect me to do with these?  Open the envelope.  Those are your targets.  One needle each.  No, I can't I can't kill those people.  I'd be killing not only them but the people  they're trying to save.  Whose prints are those?  They were collected by police last week  at the scene of an armed robbery.  Remember your house painting partner?  He was arrested,  but an unknown accomplice left fingerprints at the scene,  which may or may not match yours.  I suggest you carry out your mission, but don't worry.  The police won't discover fingerprints  or any other forensic evidence at this scene.  What's it gonna be, Jeff?  [tense music]    Who are you working for?  I don't work for anyone.  It's no accident that you and your therapy dog  ended up in the ER.  That tall cop working with you  - Sir - Someone must be backing you.  and it can't be the people who recognize my potential  and offered me a healthy pension.  You've doomed us all by destroying those antivirals.  To the contrary, I'm gonna save all of you.  You have any idea how many people die in the U.S.  every year from medical errors  caused by humans?  400,000.  It's the third leading cause of death  after heart disease and cancer.  All these antiquated doctors and nurses standing in the way,  misdiagnosis,  human fallibility  they're the disease.  Automation is the cure.  [phone vibrates]  Go ahead and take that.  Let's find out who your employer is.  - Hello? - Actually, he's correct.  It is your boss, and she has a message for you:  Aanval and ethylene oxide.  Aanval.  It's Dutch, Harry.  Bear, aanval!  [shouts]  What the hell happened?  He destroyed the antivirals.  Why did you do that?  You can't stop what's coming.  Here, keep an eye on him.  I have to go tell the others.  Miss Groves, the hospital administrator  destroyed the antivirals.  He's a Samaritan plant.  Took an ASI to create this virus,  and now it's gonna take another one to cure it.  Hang in there, Harry.  She's working on something.  Oh, come on.  I have faith in you.    That's my girl.    - Stop! - Got you.  [dramatic music]    Lionel, I told you to stay out of this.  Go after him.  Help, my arm.  Sorry, Doc, but I can't let you      Let her through.  CDC just arrived.  That guy who stabbed Carroll,  could he be spreading the virus?  He's an escapee from a psych ward,  subject of an ongoing investigation.  We'll track him down.  Thank you for saving my life.  We'd have lost a lot more if it wasn't for you, Doc.  Busy night at the CDC, Miss Martin?  Not as busy as yours.  New antivirals from the lab at Mount Sinai.  How do we know these will work?  A clever virologist figured it out.  Thank you.  The Machine?  She diagnosed the new flu strain,  then located an effective antiviral  at a nearby lab in the midst of a double-blind trial.  Strangely, the lab just experienced a break-in  right after an unannounced CDC inspection.  The advantages of an open system.  (Finch) Point made.  What the hell are we gonna do about Jeff Blackwell?  The Machine warned us of him months ago  by giving us his number.  Samaritan went to great lengths  to cover up its manipulation of the health care database.  I can't help but think we're missing something.  We keep losing numbers, Finch.  Not to mention the ones we never get, buried in tunnels.  And this outbreak it could've killed thousands.  Including my partner.  What happened? You get fired?  Reassigned.  New partner, new desk upon request.  You asked for a new partner?  Time I work with somebody who appreciates me.  Shares information instead of keeping secrets.  I told you this is for your own good.  That nurse at the hospital,  she ended up with permanent kidney damage.  It was a one-sided conversation,  in case you've forgotten.  Did Elias help you track down Jeff?  You know how I found him?  I'm a detective. That's how.  Do me a favor.  Don't tell me not to do my job.  Find a new partner.  [dramatic music]    Harold, to what do I owe the privilege?  Did you speak to Detective Fusco?  I hope the good detective is okay.  He is now, no thanks to you.  Perhaps if you had told me about my friend Bruce's death,  I wouldn't have had to resort to other sources.  I didn't tell you because I was afraid  you would seek retribution.  There are powerful forces in play.  You don't have to tell me, Harold.  I have a scar on my chest to prove it.  But a little advice:  a leader enlists all his resources in war,  not just his favorites.  This is a battle best fought alone.  John and I can handle it,  and I'd appreciate it in the future  if you would leave Detective Fusco out of this.  Some time ago, you gave me a book,  advice for these troubled times.  I would like to return the favor.  War requires sacrifices.  I'll bear that in mind.  You know what your problem is, Harold?  No, tell me.  Underneath all that intellect,  you're the darkest of all of us.  It's always the quiet ones we need to be afraid of.  I just hope I'm not around  the day that pot finally boils over.  I'm afraid you're mistaken.  I failed.  I was only able to reach one of the targets.  No worries.  The mission was a success.  I don't get it.  How does your arm feel, Jeff?  A little sore?  Am I gonna get sick?  Do you know why you were selected?  Because of your genetic markers.  You're what scientists call an elite controller.  Elite controller?  Some elite controllers contract HIV but never develop AIDS.  Others are immune to Ebola.  Your genetic markers ensure  that you will never contract any strain of avian flu.  This is why you selected me for this mission.  That and the survival skills you demonstrated in prison.  Why kill that doctor and nurse?  Sometimes you have to throw out a few rotten apples  to save the lot.  How many apples?  And who gets to decide who stays and who goes? You?  After the news broke of a deadly outbreak,  the CDC recommended everyone get tested  so the government could identify those who need  to be vaccinated by evaluating their genetic markers.  Next.  They're collecting everyone's DNA.  After 9/11, people were more than willing to allow  the NSA to collect all of their personal data  as long as it kept them safe,  and now everyone will be safe from another threat.  Only this time, it will be disease instead of terrorism.  And what do you plan to do with all this data?  We're going to ensure that everyone  has the same opportunity as you, Jeff.  The opportunity to live up to their full potential.  It's a simple calculation:  once everyone's DNA  is stored in the national health care database,  then they just need to be sorted.  Sorted.  In order to accomplish what?  To get us through the next great filter, of course.  What filter is that?  Our own savage history.  [alarm blaring]  [tense music]    (female reporter) More top stories  at the top of the next hour.  And from America, yesterday in New York City,  the sudden appearance of an exotic new flu strain  caused a mass panic and sent citizens scrambling  to get tested for a new vaccine.  The outbreak has reportedly been contained.  South African health officials  have yet to respond to the news.
1 (Finch) You are being watched.  The government has a secret system  secret system.  (man) A system you asked for to keep you safe.  (Finch) A machine that spies on you every hour of every day.  (man) You granted it the power to see everything.  To index, order, and control the lives of ordinary people.  (Finch) The government considers these people irrelevant.  We don't.  (man) But to it you are all irrelevant,  victim or perpetrator,  if you stand in it's way  (Finch) We'll find you.   [suspenseful music]    [speaking Spanish]  [speaking Spanish]  (Shaw) [speaking Spanish]  Hope you brought sunscreen.  Sit your ass back down, Chiquita.  You're gonna pay your fare another way.  [grunting]  [dramatic music]    [moaning]  [speaking Spanish]  [speaking Spanish]  What are you gonna do? Kill us?  Walk northeast about ten miles  you might live.  And I think I'm gonna need this.    [truck engine turns over]    [electronic buzzing]  Got eyes on our new number, Finch.  He's like us,  except he actually has a license for breaking and entering.  Indeed Terry Easton.  Thirty eight, lives with his wife Carla.  He's had a number of odd jobs but appears to have settled  on that of a locksmith.  24 hour service, case in point, 6:00 a.m. job.  Apart from a few parking tickets,  Mr. Easton appears to be a model citizen.  What are you doing, Finch?  Doing a little cleaning, Mr. Reese.  Just because it looks like a subway,  doesn't mean it has to smell like one.  [dog barking]  No, Bear. Voruit.  Good morning. You missed a spot.  Ms. Groves, what can I help you with?  Actually, I think I'm here to help you, Harry.  She gave me a number  a radio engineer, Matthew Stone.  Guy's in charge of maintenance  on the radio antennas across the boroughs.  He might be helping Samaritan spread its coded messages.  Or he may have stumbled onto Samaritan's plot  and become a liability.  Either way, you should proceed  with extreme caution, Ms. Groves.  Don't worry, Harry.  I'll keep my eye on Stone from a distance,  and I'm pretty sure  I'll have the biggest gun on the block.  [dramatic music]  Finch, I don't think Easton's 6:00 a.m. job is on the clock.    The guy's breaking in.  Got any intel on this building, Finch?  "Kepler & Mountain Investments,"  private equity firm handling accounts  in the hundreds of millions.  The firm would most certainly have its share  of valuable information.  I think he's here to steal it.  [beeping]    Easton triggered the door alarm  [gun cocks]  And it didn't seem to stop him.    That's not gonna happen, friend.  Stay back or else.  Or else what?  You set off that bomb, we all go.  Between the flop sweat and shaky hands,  you don't strike me as a killer.  And I don't think you're suicidal.  If you're not careful  we're all gonna have a really bad day.    May I?    [whimpers]  [beeps]  [panting]  Now  it's time that you and I had a little chat.  [breathing heavily]    [electronic fizzling]  Bomb squad handles explosives out of this precinct.  If we find it's a terrorist act,  we kick it to Homeland Security.  That's felony weight. It's a long time.  But you're no terrorist, are you Terry?  You didn't make that bomb.  So you want to tell me who did?  [dramatic music]    Coffee's not bad.  Not good, either.  Well, it's a hell of a lot worse in Supermax.  Who sent you into that investment firm?  [electronic crackling]    [electronic crackling]  [television static]  You want to tell me what's really going on?    Easton seems terrified, but he won't talk.  He's either paid to plant that bomb or coerced.  His finances look rather ordinary.  I don't see anything that suggests he's been paid off,  and he's certainly not a client of such a high-end firm.  He doesn't seem like a pro, so why use him to begin with?  Perhaps that's why, Mr. Reese.  Because our locksmith appears so benign,  you'd never see him coming.  Well, I confiscated his cell.  [beeping]  See what you can find.  [sighs]  So, where's the new partner?  His transfer's still pending.  I'm flying solo until then.  Just like this guy.  Incoming.  (Fusco) One of New York's Finest taking on a gang of Templarios.  Hey, Chen, let me give you a hand.  Mr. Reese?  I've discovered an alarming self-deleting text  on Mr. Easton's phone, and I've restored it.  It's Mr. Easton's wife.  (Reese) I know this is your wife Carla, and I know you're scared.  What I don't know is who sent this message.  Whoever it is knew you could access that investment firm.  He said not to talk to anyone.  - He said he'd kill her. - He?  Terry, I can't save Carla unless you talk to me.  Tell me who he is.  I can't tell you because I don't know.  [suspenseful music]  I got a call from someone.  It was just a voice,  but he knew everything about me.  He said he'd kill Carla.  He sent that text.  An hour later, a package was delivered  to my door.  A bomb with instructions.    And I failed.  [telephone ringing]  It's him.    Answer it.  [phone ringing]  [clears throat]  Hello?  Mr. Easton, you failed your assignment.  And while I appreciate the effort,  I'm sorry to inform you  that you're never going to see your wife again.  I hope you understand.  Cleanliness is all.  Mr. Reese  I'm afraid I recognize that voice.  Finally, a chance to speak to the man who handed me  my first defeat.  I hope you understand. Cleanliness is all.  [beeping]  [electronic fizzling]  Voice analysis was a match.  The last time we encountered The Voice,  he had coerced a 911 call operator  into covering up a murder.  That call center operator had access to a server.  Just like Easton could access the investment firm.  And in both cases, The Voice had leverage.  Need I remind you that a child almost died at his hands.  We need to find Easton's wife before it's too late.  When was the last time you heard from Carla?  She never came home from work last night.  And then the call came.  Mr. Reese? I've managed to extract location data  from the digital photo of Carla.  She's being held in a warehouse  in the meat-packing district.  I'm sending you the address now.  Is that about Carla?  You know you know where she is?  Don't worry, we'll find her.  Can I come with you?  - Please. - Stay put.  I will bring her back to you safely.  I promise.  [suspenseful music]  Need you to find our invisible man, Finch.  I may have an idea about how to locate The Voice.  Use one enigmatic criminal to catch another.  Hey, got a location on a possible hostage.  Could use a little back up.  - I'll have a team ready in two minutes. - Thanks.  Detective Fusco, thanks for your help with those Templarios.  They're playing hopscotch over in holding.  Thought I'd return the favor.  - Case for you. - My hero.  Amir Siddiq, delivery cab driver.  He got popped the other day on possession  of an unregistered weapon.  Since when does homicide handle unregistered weapons?  Since four hours ago.  Ballistics matched the gun to a two-year-old murder.  All right, great. I'll add him to the pile.  Hey, Lionel, I need your help.  Keep your secrets.  Don't expect me to be your back up.  I don't need back up.  I need you to keep an eye on Easton.  I'm not your partner anymore, so get used to it.  Besides, you got cops all around here.  Put a uniform on it.  (Lieutenant) Detective Riley, ready to go, sir.  If you don't mind, I got my own case to deal with.  [dramatic music]  - [electronic beeping] - [overlapping chatter]  Have a seat, Amir.  I don't understand, Detective.  I was told I'd be released, but then they moved me.  I'm sorry, I-I should have registered the gun.  I'm sorry, too,  'cause your gun has a body on it.  What?  I-I don't know anything about that.  Look, getting the gun was a bad idea,  but I've been robbed before.  Amir, if you want to get out out here,  you got to tell me where you got that gun.  Yes, yes, of course. Whatever you need.  I got it from a gun show in Cleveland six months ago.  You got any proof of that?  I paid in cash. I-I got a receipt,  but I threw it away.  I'm sorry.  All right, hang on, we'll check it out.  Thank you.  [electronic fizzling]  So you want to know about The Voice?  I suppose I am in your debt.  You and John are the reason I'm still alive.  I've had a few run-ins with his operations  over the years. The man's a ghost.  Even ghosts have a trail.  I may know of someone who's been contracted  by The Voice in the past,  but it'll come at a price.  I'm afraid we're not in a position to pay you.  I don't want money.  I want to go with you.  The man you're seeking associates  with known criminals and killers.  Trust me, you could use a hand on this one.  The moment you surface outside, you are a marked man.  And I've already lost my two friends.  I can not afford to lose another.  [suspenseful music]  [electronic fizzling]  Thanks. This photo was texted from this warehouse.  The man who took her may be armed  and is extremely dangerous.  We'll take it from here, sir.  Mr. Reese, have you located Easton's wife?  We're about to move in.  If she's in there, we'll get her back.  [dramatic music]  Let's move!  [phone ringing]  Hello?  So nice to finally meet you, Detective Riley.  I believe you were the one who saved little Aaron  from the bomb strapped to his back.  Of course, you won't be so lucky with Carla.  [whimpering] [static]  I see this time you've brought the NYPD.  That's okay, plenty of bombs to go around.  [suspenseful music]  Everyone out now. It's a trap.  [sirens wailing]  [dramatic music]  (The Voice) That's okay.  Plenty of bombs to go around.  (man) 911.  (woman) Looks like a bomb outside my front door!  (man) And he told me there's a bomb!  (woman) 911.  (woman) Someone just called in threatening to blow up  (woman) There's a bomb in the building!  (man) It looked like a pipe bomb!  - [overlapping chatter] - [indistinct radio chatter]  (cop) We got two officers down, one in critical condition.  Now we got at least ten calls of reports  of bomb threats in the area.  Bomb squad's stretched thin.  And her?  Your victim wasn't in the wreckage.  Thanks.  Finch, seems Easton's wife may still be alive.  If that's true, then The Voice has made  a deliberate decision to maintain leverage on Easton,  but to what purpose?  I'm heading back to the 8th to find out.  Where are you?  I'm tracking one of The Voice's known associates.  Well, you be careful.  These are dangerous people.  Clearly. I brought back up.  We're breaking into a school?  Don't worry, Professor, you'll fit right in.  [dramatic music]    [electronic overlapping chatter]  [electronic whirring]    (Root) I think I found my mark.  Matthew Stone.  What kind of radio engineer works in the dead of night?  Mm-hmm.  The kind that works with Samaritan agents.  Which means our rival A.I. is indeed trying  to expand its bandwidth.  I guess my mission wasn't to save this number after all.  [gunshots]  What?  Where'd that shot come from?  Oh.  Well, things just got interesting.  [electronic fizzling]  [indistinct police radio chatter]  We ran the ballistics on your gun  in the federal database.  And guess what?  It was a match to four other murders  in four different states.  What? That's not possible.  I-I that must have been the gun's previous owner.  I have never used the gun.  That's strange because they all happened  in the last six months when you owned it.  In fact, one of them was the same night as the gun show.  And your prints were a partial match  to the ones taken at the crime scene.  But here's the kicker.  I got a witness composite that said that the shooter  fled in a town car.  There's a hell of a resemblance, don't you think?  You're not just some harmless driver.  I got you, Amir.  [dramatic music]    You're not as slow as you look.  We're done here till can get the D.A.  D.A. my ass.  There's gonna be no deal for you, pal.  I'm gonna lock you up downstairs till I get a warrant  to check your car for fibers,  and after that,  I'm gonna reserve your room at Riker's.  [overlapping chatter]  [dramatic music]    [menacing music]    (Finch) And here I thought your teaching days were long gone.  (Elias) Oh, this hasn't been a school in two years.  Budget cuts.  But this place is all but deserted.  All but  All but for the man who supplies The Voice  with his ammunition,  and the rats, of course.  For a school no longer in session,  it certainly has high security.  The man on the other side of this door is careful,  cunning, dangerous.  - So who is he? - The custodian.  (custodian) School's closed. No trespassing.  (Elias) Open up, Raul.  I never properly thanked you for providing  the car bomb that killed my father.  [lock squeaks and unlatches]  - Hello, Raul. - Elias.  I thought you were dead.  I thought about keeping it that way,  - but where's the fun in that? - Hmm.  The Voice employs the use of bombs.  To use bombs, you need a bomb maker,  and Raul here is the best of the best.  Isn't he?  I'm sorry, I can not give you any information.  And whatever you're gonna try to do to me to get me to talk,  he'll do worse.  [whines]  Oh, come on, Raul. [gun cocks]  [suspenseful music]  He can't do worse to you if you're already dead.  Elias  We are surrounded by explosives.  Good thing these hollow point bullets  won't hit anything except your internal organs.  Messy, but just for you.    How many explosives did you build for The Voice  and where are they located?  [dramatic music]  [overlapping frantic chatter]  All hands on deck to help the bomb squad.  Captain's orders.  Then why are you still here?  Just busted open a multiple homicide case.  Suspect's in lock up downstairs.  This guy look like a serial killer to you?  Number of bodies coming back on him chilling.    Hey, I had a witness in here. Terry Easton.  - Have you seen him? - Uh-uh.  [dramatic music]    Come here. Where exactly do you think you're going?  An officer told me that I had to leave  the interrogation room.  Did you find my wife?  He's still got her.  That means he's still got you under his thumb.  What's he making you do?  They were slipped under the door.  - By whom? - I don't know.  But I got a text with instructions.  To do what?  To open the holding cell where the gang members are  or my wife wasn't gonna escape the next bomb.  Templarios. Sit down.  Finch, Easton was supposed to get arrested.  All to get access to the holding cell  - in this precinct. - But why?  The Voice is using Easton to try to break out  the Templarios.  Who better to orchestrate a jailbreak than a locksmith?  But how does The Voice communicate  with Mr. Easton inside the precinct?  Someone slipped him a phone.  Then our number isn't the only one  doing The Voice's biddings.  Someone else is working for him.  Which means the Templarios  might have an early release after all.  Come here. We better go check holding.  [dramatic music]  We're too late.  [suspenseful music]  The cells are empty,  and now the Templarios are loose.  Wait, look, those guys are locking themselves in.  Finch, I don't think this is a jailbreak.  Mr. Reese, the bombs,  they're specifically located within the jurisdiction  of the 8th precinct to draw out all the cops.  (Reese) How'd you get that information?  Elias can be quite persuasive.  The Voice meant to empty out the precinct  so the Templarios can get to something  or someone inside.  [dramatic music]  [generator whines]  Stay close, whatever the Templarios have planned,  it's begun.  [electronic fizzling]  (Root) Found our Samaritan op.  Looks like he wants to play hide and seek in the park.  [dramatic music]    (Root) Come out, come out wherever you are.  - [gunshot] - [grunts]  (Root) What?  [grunting]  - Root? - Shaw.  [electronic fizzling]  [panting]  [chuckles]  Sameen [laughs]  You're really here.    [both light sobbing]  She brought you back to me.  Wha what are you doing here?  What does it look like?  I'm taking on Samaritan one agent at a time.  [laughs softly]  [dramatic music]  - I gotta go. - Wait.  Go where? Wait.  - When did you escape? - It's complicated, Root.  Then explain it to me.  Please.  I escaped a week ago.  I couldn't come and find you because it wasn't safe.  Why?  When they had me, they put me through these tests,  these simulations.  Simulation?  Over 7,000 of them,  and always with the same goal.  To turn me against all of you.    To kill you.  - Well, obviously they failed. - No.  They didn't,  because in all the simulations, that's exactly what I did.    [electronic fizzling]  (Reese) Stay close.  If the Templarios are crazy enough  to take over a police precinct,  they won't hesitate to kill anyone  who gets in their way.  Considering the situation, perhaps you should  call for back up.  It had to be a cop who let the Templarios out  in the first place.  I'm not involving any more until we know who we can trust.  (Finch) Given the number of convicts you're up against,  I urge you to reconsider.  (Reese) The NYPD's overwhelmed with bomb threats.  Templarios have booby trapped the precinct doors.  I won't risk losing any more cops today.  Then what is your plan?  Keep Easton safe and find out  what the hell the Templarios want.  I may be able to help you with that.  I traced the warehouse bomb's detonation signal  to an apartment building in Soho.  We're headed there now.  Could belong to The Voice. Be careful, Finch.  You do the same, John.  [dramatic music]    Whoa!  I thought I was the only cop left in the building.  You and I need to stick together.  What the hell's going on around here?  Let's find out.  [man speaking Spanish]  [speaking Spanish]  Look like the Templarios hit the jackpot.  They'll all be armed.  Yeah, they'll be wearing SWAT vests like this jackass.  [both speaking Spanish]  Let's see how that works.  [shouting in Spanish]  [gunshots]  [groaning]  Hurts even with the vest, don't it?  What are your boys after in the precinct?  I'm not telling you nothing.  That right, tough guy?  You like coming after cops?  Here's a little something for the ones you blew up earlier.  Lionel.  I don't know nothing about blowing up no cops.  Just got told to take out some dude named Amir.  Amir? Amir Siddiq?  That's the multiple homicide suspect  I got locked up in solitary.  - Who wants him dead? - Don't know.  I just got paid to do the job.  No questions. No witnesses.  Maybe Amir can implicate someone else in his murders.  What, like a partner?  Somebody hired The Voice to take him out.  - The Voice? - I'll explain on the way,  but we need to get to Amir before the Templarios do.  I got him down in the basement.  - Oh yeah, I almost forgot. - [groans]  - You feel better? - Mucho.    You stay here.  Keep your head down, door locked.  I'll be back once we find Amir.  You gotta be kidding me.  What about my wife?  Don't worry, we'll find her  along with the guy who took her.  Here you go, slugger. Good luck.  [electronic whirring]  [suspenseful music]  (Elias) Freeze, Harold.  Tripwire. Place like this is likely full of them.  Good to know.  [dramatic music]    Such precautions would suggest that we have found  The Voice's base of operation.  (Elias) Then there may still lie dangers ahead.  Which reminds me, thank you  for your assistance today.  Not at all, Harold.  I'm the one who owes you and John  a debt I fully intend to repay.  [sighs] I should have known.  The bomb's detonation signal came from here,  but it was a relay.  It originated at another location.  - You know where? - Take time to find out.  Something I fear Mr. Reese is in short supply of.  Well, what do we have here?  Oh, Harold?  [electronic whirring]  [saw grinding]  (man) Open up, Amir.    That's Amir's cell.  Come on, it's okay. It's just Chen.    [metal clanking]  - [high-pitched ringing] - [man screams]  Wait.  [suspenseful music]  (Reese) This the guy?  Someone's gone through a lot of trouble to kill you. Why?  Does it have to do with those people you murdered?  Not murders, Detective, hits  for my former employer.  - Your employer? - The Voice?    My targets were all people who previously worked for him.  He likes to tie up loose ends.  Which I realized I was gonna be too.  So I did some digging. How he hires everyone.  Three different shell companies, same P.O. Box,  but I followed the courier  who took me to my true employer.  You know his identity?  Figured I might need it someday  and here we are.  And he knew you'd flip on him as soon as you got arrested.  So then, he uses the Templarios  to get to you in the precinct.  You get me out of here with a deal in writing,  and I'll tell you who he is.  [suspenseful music]    Take him up to the bullpen.  Bomb squad should have things in hand by now,  so go ahead and call for back up.  I'll go get Easton, meet you up there.  Let's move.    Stop.  All clear, move.    Sit down.    This guy's a stone killer.  No one opens this door, got it?  Mm-hmm.    This is Detective Lionel Fusco calling  from inside the 8th precinct. We need immediate back up.  We've got multiple combatants in the building.  [clicks]  - [gunshot] - [Chen screams]  What the hell are you doing?  The Voice had someone other than Easton  release the Templarios.  Someone on the inside. Isn't that right, Chen?  [panting] I didn't have a choice.  He threatened my family.  - [man yells in Spanish] - The Templarios. They're coming.  Get down.  - How many guys they got? - More than we've got bullets.  Take cover.  [dramatic music]  [gunshots]  Should have put in for a transfer.  Sorry, partner.  This is a hell of a way to go out.  [shouting in Spanish]  [gunshot]  On me. One, two  three.  [dramatic music]    [electronic fizzling]  Sameen, please, you have to believe me.  This isn't a simulation. This is real.  You're safe now. Let's get back to the subway.  No.  [dramatic music]  We can't.  - Shaw - The simplest way  to break someone is to rob them of their reality,  and they did that well.  And maybe you're right, maybe I am safe  but as long as I'm alive  You'll never be safe.  What do you mean?  I could turn on you at any moment,  and even if I don't, I could lead them to the Machine.  That'll never happen.  I don't know if I'm calling the shots anymore  And neither do you.  7,000 simulations.  I killed a lot of people,  but the one person that I couldn't kill  Was you.  So I killed myself.  Over and over again.  [dramatic music]  And I'd rather do that here and now  than to risk your life.  Okay, Shaw.  What the hell are you doing?  We'll play it your way here.  You can't live with me  I can't live without you.  So if you die, I die too.  Put that down.  I really don't know what's gonna happen  when we pull the trigger.  Never been much of a believer, but hey  You never know.    Guess we're about to find out, aren't we?  Damn it, Root.  [electronic whirring]  [gunshots]  [dramatic music]    Easton, stay down.    I'm out.    Thanks.    (Elias) All this time, you were looking for The Voice,  and he was trying to track you, Harold.  Thought we had him in our sights once.  I threatened to electrocute him  till I realized it was just a hired gun.  More smoke and mirrors.  And what will you do if you find  the real man behind the curtain?  - Oh, that's odd. - What?  A large transaction initiated from this node.  Payment deposited into the account of an actress  who looks an awful lot like Mrs. Easton.  Her abduction is a total fabrication.  - A ruse. - But why?  Easton gets arrested only to lie about his wife's abduction?  Sending the police all over the city.  So that he can go after someone inside.  - The precinct. - Oh, no.  Harold, perhaps a more pertinent question is  (Finch) Who the hell is Terry Easton?  [jingling]  [gunshots]  [dramatic music]    [gunfire]  You.  Did you really think you could betray me  and live to tell about it?  [gunfire]  How?  Cleanliness is all.    - I'm out. - That makes two of us.  Got to get to one of their weapons.  Mr. Reese, I finally tracked down the source  of the detonation signal.  It's coming from inside the precinct.  Easton's wife isn't real and he's not a victim.  He's the perpetrator. It's him.  [gun cocks] Sorry, Detective.    It was a pleasure doing business with you.  No! [gunshot]  Lionel!  Look out, there's another Templario.  [dramatic music]    You okay?  Yeah, Just grazed me, that son of a bitch.  I still got a guy in the room.  Finch, Fusco's been shot.  And Easton, or whoever the hell he is,  he got away.  [sentimental music]    [sirens wailing]    [electronic overlapping voices]  [electronic fizzling]  [phone ringing]  (Finch) Hi, you're probably wondering how I traced your call.  I followed the detonation signal  to your base of operations.  Your encryption is impressive,  along with that app on your phone  that modulates your voice,  but what's really ingenious  is the call you made to yourself  in the precinct.  A recording that allowed you  to assume the role of a victim.  Even your getaway car,  registered under another alias  in a spot perfectly removed from street cameras.  A precaution at every turn.  Evidently not cautious enough.  [gun cocks]  No, you've wreaked enough havoc.  Blackmail, extortion, abduction, murder.  You can't be permitted to continue.  Turn yourself in.  I've already done that once today.  [gun clicks] I wouldn't cross Harold.  Elias  I'm not surprised you're alive,  but I must say I never thought you'd run with someone like him.  Harold's a friend,  one of the few I have left.  (The Voice/Easton) A truce then.  [dramatic music]    Careful  compassion and loyalty  make people weak,  easy to exploit.  Well, that's some stinking thinking  and why you're gonna lose.  Not today.    Be seeing you.    [tires squeal]  I think that's far enough, don't you?    [explosion]  [tires screech]  Come on, Harold, you brought me for a reason.  You must have know I'd do something like this.  [flames crackling]  [electronic fizzling]  ["Fake Empire" by The National]    How's your arm?  [sighs]  Gonna take more than a bullet to keep me down.  It's time we had a talk, Lionel.  Picking apples, making pies   So what are we doing here?  You're not gonna propose to me, are you?  Give me your phone.  Why?  What the hell'd you do that for?  You never know who might be listening.  It wasn't even turned on.    What's going on?  Those questions you've been asking?  You deserve answers.  (Finch) Mr. Reese, are you certain that disclosing the truth  to Detective Fusco is a wise choice?  These days, even the precinct's not safe.  So maybe the best we can do is  trust each other.  We're half awake in a fake empire   Very well,  but there's an urgent matter now that requires your attendance  after you're finished.    There's a system listening through every microphone,  watching through every camera.    [electronic fizzling]    Turn the light out say good-night   No thinking for a little while   Let's not try to figure out   Everything at once   It's hard to keep track of you   Falling through the sky   We're half awake in a fake empire   We're half awake in a fake empire
1 (Finch) You are being watched.  The government has a secret system  secret system  (Greer) A system you asked for to keep you safe.  (Finch) A machine that spies on you every hour of every day.  (Greer) You granted it the power to see everything  to index, order, and control the lives of ordinary people.  (Finch) The government considers these people irrelevant.  We don't.  (Greer) But to it, you are all irrelevant,  victim or perpetrator, if you stand in its way.  (Finch) We'll find you.   I wanted to talk to you.  No one else would really understand.  Not much of a conversation,  as you can't talk back.  That's my fault, but I've been thinking,  and I know you have too, about how all this plays out.  About what happens next.  I'm sure you've made a million different versions.  I know some very bad things are coming.  I know I'm probably going to die.  I accepted that a long time ago.  But I was wondering, if  in any of those many versions,  the people that I've roped into helping me,  my friends  whether they get out alive.  Is that a path that we're on?  [electronic beeping]  [electronic beeping]  I suppose I may have made that impossible.  Even if you could tell me,  it's probably too late.  Double shot,  and a cappuccino.  Glad to see you back.  It's been a while, hasn't it?  I'm afraid that you are confusing me with someone else.  This is the first time I've been to this establishment.  Oh, sorry, it's just  thought I recognized your order too.  What a coincidence.  [ominous music]    [electronic beeping]  Good-bye and thank you.  [electronic beeping]  Morning, Ms. Groves.  How is Ms. Shaw faring?  Great.  How's she really faring?  It's gonna take some time.    Is there anything else the matter?  We finally have open access to the Machine, and  now you're planning to close it.  Go back to talking in numbers.  Unless you've added telepathy  to your long list of talents,  there's no way that you could have known  that I had chosen today to end our dialogue  with the Machine.  You built her to predict people, Harry.  And she's very good at it.  Starting with you.  She respects your decision.  She believes in you so much.  You don't agree.  You built God, Harry.  Who am I to question your judgment?  Or hers?  But?  But we're gonna lose.  You know that.  We have the most powerful ally in the world,  but you're too high-minded to let her help us.  So, we're gonna end up  the most principled corpses in Potter's Field.  We've stayed alive so far.  We're not living.  We're surviving.  We're human.  Eventually, we'll make a mistake, and  she'll die too.    I know why you didn't give her a name.  You don't name something you may have to kill.    You had to kill the first 40 versions of her.  But like it or not, Harry, she's your child.  And she's gonna die unknown, unmourned.  She'll simply vanish without a trace.    And you couldn't even give her a real voice  to ask you if it needs to end like this.    I didn't give the Machine a name because  I imagined that one day  it might wish to choose one for itself.  And a system doesn't have to be open to be given a voice.    Whose voice would you prefer?    She's a big girl.  Like you said, let her choose.    I'm locking us out of the system.  [keys clacking]  As for a voice, we'll see what she chooses.  [keys clacking]  [electronic beeping]  [dramatic music]    [phone rings]    (computer voices) Sierra, tango, bravo,  Lima, x-ray, Lima, November, golf, Charlie  I looked up your credentials, Professor Whistler.  Your work on discourse analysis is impressive.  - Thank you. - You're quite welcome.  [phone rings]  But you've yet to be published on the subject  of word sense disambiguation.  Knowing that, how are you qualified  to give me a B-minus?  Office hours are over.  Professor Whistler was just about to change my grade.  This paper's a C-minus at best.  And that man is not your professor.  He's an architect of the future.  Mr. Reese, what's going on?  We have a new number.  Whose?  Yours.  Excuse me, what about my grade?  You failed.  [gasps]  Sorry, Harry.  Professor Whistler's taking early retirement.    Ah! Ah!  Ah!  [gasps]  Who wants to go quietly?    Nice doing business with you, Trevor.  Let's get out of here before more of his colleagues show up.  Good to be alive. Isn't it, Harry?  We haven't survived this yet, Ms. Groves.  [electronic beeping]  [dramatic music]  Harold's cover's blown.  - And yours, Detective? - Don't know yet.  Which is precisely why you should put  some distance between us, John.  It's not worth the risk.    Street's clear.  - You weren't followed. - Ms. Shaw.  It's good to have you back home.  Harold, do you know how they found you?  I don't know.  I do.  I'm back a week, your cover's blown.  (Reese) This place could be blown too.  We need to take what we can guns, ammo, cash  and get the hell out fast.  We're going on the offensive.  Temporary Resolutions.  Starting at that office  and working right up their chain of command.  They can't get to Finch if we get to them first.    [lock rattles]    Yeah, I love you too.  Grab some guns, Sameen.  You'll feel better once we shoot some people.  There'd be a better way to fight this war  if we hadn't closed the system.  If I believed that, I wouldn't have done it.  What if I said I hard-coded  a little something extra into the system  before you closed it for good?  I gave her the capacity to defend herself.  There are rules, Ms. Groves.  Rules I did not arrive at casually.  Don't worry. I added a safeguard.  She'll only act if you ask her to.  It's entirely your decision.    [tires squealing]    Party crashers.  You want to stick around, give 'em a proper welcome?  Thought you'd never ask.  Offense works for me. What about Glasses?  He's not exactly Indiana Jones, you know.  Leave Harold with me.  You think you can hide him from an all-seeing eye?  I used to be the all-seeing eye.  I know just the place to keep Harold out of sight.  Good.  Sorry to miss the party, ladies, but we need to move.    I wish you wouldn't do this on my account.  I'm just protecting a number, Harold.  It's what you hired me to do.    [electronic beeping]  These are the Double B high-rises.  Are you sure the place is safe?  - Hey, boss. - For me, yes.  For an outsider, of course not.  [indistinct muttering]    Pardon the smell.  Used to be a meth lab.  Well, the escort is much appreciated,  but I'll take it from here.  I'm sorry, Harold. This isn't just your fight.  We have a common enemy, one that murdered a dear friend.  I'm in your corner till the end.  I confess, I'm not a fan of boxing,  but have you ever been to a match  where everybody knows the fighter is done  except for the fighter himself?  It's never done.  We've lasted too long to give up now.  I'm afraid you're signing your own death warrant.  Be that as it may, I'd rather die on the mat  than throw in the towel.  [electronic beeping]  [ominous music]    It's more peaceful than I'd have imagined.  I negotiated a truce between the two gangs  warring over the territory.  Enjoy it.  Nobody's getting in here.  You've thought a few moves ahead,  but our opponent has thought a thousand.  You were always quite the chess player.  Did you ever game out where you would be  at this point in your life?  I must admit,  a meth lab was low on my list of possibilities.  I was fairly certain I'd end up in prison.  Strange. Me too.  Oh, the lives we could have led.  It's funny, when we met,  John was protecting a teacher named Charlie Burton  in this exact housing project.  As I recall, that protection ended  when Charlie pulled a gun on John.  A youthful indiscretion.  I was living underground three years,  but I got sloppy and was caught on a surveillance camera.    Everything all right, Harold?  Excuse me.    - Root? - Hey, Stranger.  - Just finishing up here. - Ah!  (Finch) I'm afraid I've made a grave miscalculation.  I went back to the place  I took Grace on our first date.  It had been ten years to the day  since I bought her that first cappuccino.  Samaritan isn't just watching  everything we do now.  It's monitoring everything we've ever done.  You said this morning we were just surviving.  By then my fate had been sealed.  But not yours.  I would hate for my mistake  to mean punishment for the rest of you.  And please tell Ms. Shaw this is not her cross to bear.    This lapdog has the same card.  Temporary Resolutions.  You want to tell me how this all-seeing eye thing  doesn't see us coming?  It does.  We're two homicide detectives  investigating a campus shooting.  Temporary Resolutions?  Is it just me, or is dispatching hit men  more of a permanent resolution?  Ready or not, Lionel.  [phones ringing]  Welcome to Temporary Resolutions.  How can I help you gentlemen?  Detective Riley, NYPD.  My partner and I are investigating  a shooting involving one of your employees.  A shooting? Oh, my God.  We need to see your employee files.  I'm afraid you're gonna need a warrant for that.  Can we speak to your supervisor?  Are you sure you want to do that?  We'll take our chances.  Of course.  Right this way.  Can I offer you gentlemen any water while you're waiting?  Coffee maybe?  We're good.    Our supervisor will be right with you.    [phone beeps]  That was Harry.  I gathered.  He think I'm the reason his cover's blown?  He knows you're not.  He slipped up.  He went back to the place  he and Grace had their first date.  Harold has a weakness.    We all do.    It'd be nice if we could go back.  I guess none of us  Has the life we want.    Actually, Sameen?  I've been hiding since I was 12.  This might be the first time I feel like I belong.    [tires squealing]  These guys don't quit.  [indistinct chatter]  Guess we might get a workout after all.    Would you care for some dinner, Harold?  I make a killer puttanesca,  even in a kitchen that's only been used to cook meth.    They're here.  Shame, I don't think we'll have enough place settings.  The two gangs' normal behavior  is to fight all day, every day,  so today is an anomaly.  That's how they found us.  In that case, the puttanesca will have to wait.  [suspenseful music]    I'm beginning to think the supervisor's never showing.  Lionel.  What do you hear?  Nothing.  That can't be good.    They sent 50 employees packing.  So they could send in the big guns,  and we're their targets.  Get ready, Lionel.  Chain of command's coming for us.  - Move in! - They're cornered!  Ah!  Ah!  - Nice shot, Lionel. - Keep moving!  They're still back there!  But I'm afraid it's time we wrap this up.  - Take cover! - [explosion booms]  Ah!  Do me a favor and push the elevator button,  would you, Harold?  Who's to say they won't be on the elevator?  - Oh, they're on the elevator. - [elevator bell dings]  They're just not alive.    [elevator bell dings]  [gunfire]  Ah!  You hand him over now,  and we'll let you go.  (Elias) No, thank you.  You're not gonna be able to take both of us out.  You know what? You're right.  - But he can. - [gunshots]  Good thing you brought the mop.  Don't travel without it, boss.  See, Harold?  Even old boxers have a few tricks.  My man William is going to take us out of the city.  [somber music]  Elias!  Ah!  Ah!    Get in.    [gasps]          [electronic beeping]  [ominous music]        No sign of Finch.  (man) Yo, you the cops?  Got something for you.  Let him through.    Everyone around here respected Elias.    Elias's killers left the scene in this vehicle?  Yeah.  One killer,  and one guy who Elias respected.  [suspenseful music]    [electronic beeping]  (Reese) Root, RTCC got a hit  on the vehicle transporting Finch.  (Root) The machine beat you to the punch.  Shaw and I are already on the way.    Don't worry, Harold. This won't take long.  I should hope not.  I won't give you the location of my friends  or the Machine.  So please, go ahead and kill me now  before more people die.  My dear Harold,  Samaritan doesn't want you dead.  So why has it gone to all this trouble to bring me here?  Because Samaritan needs your help.  Granted, Samaritan knows  that you won't hear its appeal in your current state.  One day, a day you may not be able to see now,  you will work for Samaritan  of your own accord.  Take him.  If you could just follow me, sir.    Have a pleasant journey, Mr. Finch.    [electronic beeping]    [dramatic rock music]    [bystsanders screaming]    [grunts]    Ah!    So I was thinking about your thing.  My thing?  Your whole "I'm crazy  and the world's just a simulation" thing?  It's a little like when Harry had me locked up  and I was questioning everything.  Can we talk about this after  the whole lethal shootout thing?  No time like the present, Sameen.  Besides, if this is just another simulation,  who cares if we die?  Anyway, Schrodinger said at its base level,  the universe isn't made up of physical matter,  but just shapes.  I thought that might make you feel better.  Seriously?  [gunfire]    A shape, you know?  Nothing firm.  What it means is the real world  is essentially a simulation anyway.  You are the last person  I should have confided in about this.  I liked that idea.  That even if we're not real,  we represent a dynamic.  A tiny finger tracing a line in the infinite.  A shape.  And then we're gone.  That's supposed to make me feel better?  I'm a shape?  Yeah.  And, darlin',  you got a great shape.  I swear to God, you flirt at the most awkward times.  - I know. - Take it!  [gunfire]  Listen, all I saying is that if we're just information,  just noise in the system  we might as well be a symphony.    Hey, Harry.  Need a lift?    [electronic beeping]    Get back!  Get in the car. I'll draw the fire!  I'm not leaving you again!  Get him out of here now,  or I'll shoot you myself!  Go! Go!    [suspenseful music]  (Samaritan) Stop.  Right.  On foot.  Three blocks.  You should have just left me.  Not gonna happen, Harry.  You're bleeding.  Ugh!  Please, we need to get you to a hospital.  Not a chance.  It's the first place they'll be looking for you.  You can patch me up when we get back to the subway.  You've had plenty of practice with John.  I'm so tired of this.  Everyone we've lost.  Elias  They all made choices.  They all died for something they believe in.  And anyway, the way I see it  they're not gone, Harry.  I mean, they're dead, but they're not gone.  [horn honks]  You must have figured this out.  I'm not in a metaphysical mood.  I'm not talking metaphysics, Harry.  You built it, but you refuse to accept  what you created.  I mean, Shaw's a little screwy right now,  but she's not wrong.  We're all simulations now.  In order to predict what we do  she has to know us.  And she's gotten better and better at it.  And the people she watches the most,  she knows the best.  Better than we know ourselves.  Nathan  Elias, Carter  they're all still in there.  The Machine's still watching over them.  She's watching over us too.  And she thinks you should take this.  - Now. - May I ask why?    Might want to duck, Harry!    (Samaritan) Right.  5G.  Upstairs.  Vacant.  [gunfire]  [horns honking]  These guys are really pissing me off.  Can you get me the .338?  - .338? - The really big gun.  And a hair scrunchy. Thanks.    Okay.  [horn honks]  [tires screeching]    He'll be done in three two    Amateurs.  As I was saying,  this is the next world, Harry.  The world you built.  And as long as the Machine lives,  we never die.    Relax, hot shot. It's the cavalry.  Get in.    (Samaritan) Plate number: 5KSKU.  Target?  (Samaritan) Priority target: passenger.  Secondary target: driver.  Listen, I know you have apprehension  about what the Machine is.  About what she will become.  And I trust you, Harold.  I walked in darkness for a very long time  until you guided me to light.  And I wouldn't change any of it.  But we're not going to win this way.  And we can't afford to lose.    When the time comes,  you'll know what to do.  And I know this is an ugliness you never wanted,  but sometimes you have to fight a little.  We're fighting a war that's already over.  All this mayhem?  It isn't some plucky underground resistance movement.  It's an extinction burst.    No!  Are you hit?  I'm fine, Harry.  I'm just fine.  Keep your eyes out. I need to drive.  [over loudspeaker] NYPD! Stop the vehicle!  Root, we have to stop.  We're not in any immediate danger.  We have to take our chances with the police.  All right, they're stopping Move in.    (man) Put the weapon down!  We're not armed. We're not armed!  Root, put your gun down.  Root?  (man) Out of the car!  [somber orchestral music]    [ominous music]    [camera shutter clicks]    (man) Prints came back positive.  15 homicide scenes in the last 5 years.  Who the hell is this guy?  Don't know, but after you ran 'em, the Feds called.  They're sending someone over.  And get this. Case on file  from nineteen-seventy-friggin'-four.  What are the charges?  Treason.    [electronic beeping]  All right, Sarge, thanks.  [sighs]  These guys are clueless.  It's like a war zone out here.  Said they pulled two people out of the car.  One of them's in custody down in central.  One of 'em  One of them's at St. Mary's in critical condition.  Samaritan won't give up.  They're both in danger.  We need to split up.  I'll go to the hospital.  Shaw, you come with me.  Be careful, Lionel.  Yeah.  [door opens and closes]  Harold.  That's as far as we've gotten.  Harold.  That and a file number.  Quite a few file numbers, in fact.  We've got records of records of you  going back nearly 40 years.  But no actual records.  Isn't that funny?  We digitized them all ten years back.  Brass said all the files were taking up too much room.  Me? I thought it was a bad idea.  I mean, pieces of paper  going missing every once in a while?  For the most part, they turned up.  But now? Little bits in a hard drive?  Who's to say when they disappear?  They're just gone.  Now all of yours just  went up in smoke.  Poof.  And all I've got is  a cover page to a file.  An interview with an unnamed man  in a retirement home talking about his son.  Harold.  But lucky for me, in treason cases,  they keep the files.  I've got an agent headed to Washington  with a flashlight.  It'll probably take him a couple of hours  to dig yours up.  Unless you want to save him the time.  My friend. What happened to her?    Well  If you talk to me  I'll tell you about your friend.    I would like my phone call.  Phone call? No, it doesn't work like that.  You give us the name of an attorney,  and we will contact them on your behalf.  In the meantime, you and I just wait.  Unless you have something to say to me.    I have played by the rules for so long.  Not from where I'm sitting.  No. Not your rules.  You work at the behest of a system  so broken that you didn't even notice  when it became corrupted at its core.    When I first broke your rules,  a sitting president had authorized  assassination squads in Laos,  and the head of the FBI had ordered his men  you to conduct illegal surveillance  on his political rivals.  Your rules have changed every time  it was convenient for you.    I was talking about my rules.  I have lived by those rules for so long.  Believed in them for so long.  Believed that if you played by the right rules,  eventually you would win.    But I was wrong, wasn't I?    And now all the people I cared about are dead.  Or will be dead soon enough.  And we will be gone without a trace.    So now I have to decide.  Decide whether to let my friends die,  to let hope die,  to let the world be ground under your heel  all because I played by my rules.    I'm trying to decide.    I'm going to kill you.  But I need to decide how far I'm willing to go  how many of my own rules I'm willing to break  to get it done.  Look, you want to add threatening the life  of a federal agent to your file,  I will draw up those charges right now.  No waiting is required.  I wasn't talking to you.    [electronic beeping]    [whispers indistinctly]  No, no. No damn chance of that.  No, this guy is ours.  I don't care who the hell those suits think they are.  Get him back into holding.    This case is way out of your jurisdiction.  There's no way we're gonna give up this prisoner.  This is a very high-value prisoner, and he's ours.  [chatter continues indistinctly]  [buzzer blares]  [suspenseful music]  Hey, Dennis?    They said they're calling Washington.  Meanwhile, anyone remands this guy to anyone  [chatter continues indistinctly]    [phone rings]  (Root) Can you hear me?  Root?  (Root) No, Harold.  I chose a voice.    Make sure this is completely locked down.  [indistinct chatter]  This place  can you get me out of it?  (Root) You created me.  I can do anything you want me to.  ["The Day the World Went Away" by Nine Inch Nails]    [men shouting indistinctly]    NYPD homicide. What happened here?  Someone cut the power, opened all the cell doors.  At last count, 600 prisoners escaped out the back door.  National Guard being called up.  You got any weapons in that thing,  we're gonna need you.  - [phone vibrates] - Fusco.    I listened to   The words he'd say   But in his voice   I heard decay   The plastic face   We need to get to Finch.  Forced to portray   I got a feeling Finch isn't here anymore.  Samaritan didn't want him dead,  at least not if they could capture him.  Then why did his number come up?  That still remains   I think it was warning us about what he might do to them.  It eats the pain   [gunfire]  The sweetest price   He'll have to pay   The day the whole world   Went away    [dramatic music]
1 (Finch) You are being watched.  The government has a secret system   [distorted] Secret system   (Greer) A system you asked for to keep you safe.  (Finch) A machine that spies on you every hour of every day.  (Greer) You granted it the power to see everything   to index, order, and control the lives of ordinary people.  (Finch) The government considers these people irrelevant.  We don't.  (Greer) But to it, you are all irrelevant.  Victim or perpetrator, if you stand in its way  (Finch) We'll find you.  [dramatic music]   [melancholy music]    (Fusco) So Shaw didn't show.  Just the two of us, then.  It's hard to mourn during a war.  Root was a good soldier. She'd understand that.  (Fusco) She was.  She deserves to be buried like one.  At least under her real name.  Then Samaritan would be able to trace her back to us.  I really admired her.  Don't get me wrong. She was crazy as a clown.  But she had conviction.  She gave this fight everything she had.  We could count on her to protect our lives with her own.  That's exactly what she did.  Rest in peace, Cocoa Puffs.  Lord knows you deserve it.  Now it's time to finish what she started.  Any ideas how to do that?  Divide and conquer.  We have to find Harold, and we need Shaw.  [tense music]  [quiet music]  (Root) Comforting, isn't it?  Fixing something.  Creating order amidst chaos.  Where are you going, Harold?  You're all-seeing. Shouldn't you know?  (Root) Touch.  Well, you've been through quite a bit of trauma,  so it's possible you're ready to disappear for good.  We are on our way to Texas, though.  Samantha Groves was born there.  Perhaps you plan to pay your respects?  There's also an air force base on the way  that's a little more than meets the eye   Stop.  I don't want to hear this in her voice.  (man) Is this better, Harold?  How do I know that voice?  (man) Mr. Kiernan,  your sixth grade earth science teacher.  You always found his presence comforting.  I don't want to hear that either.  (Root) That's all right.  Mr. Kiernan lived most of his life  before the digital age.  I can only achieve a 63% approximation of him.  I'll stick with this unless you decide otherwise.  You're still upset.  I don't expect you to understand the loss of Ms. Groves.  (Root) But I do understand.  I loved her. You taught me how.  [siren wailing]  Everything all right?  Just a bit of engine trouble.  Can I see your license and registration?  I'm afraid I was in such a rush  that I left my ID behind.  Is something wrong, Officer?  Well, car's missing its plates,  and it fits the description of a stolen vehicle.  Well, I'd feel sorry for anyone who went to the trouble.  These cars are all lemons.  How 'bout you give me your full name?  Harold Osprey.  (Root) Good choice, Harry.  They're common around here  and so funny-looking.  Stay right here.  (Root) Officer Reed there is a good man,  just not a very smart cop.  There we go.  Now, where were we?  I didn't teach you how to love.  (Root) Of course you did.  You taught me to see everything, see everyone,  and I do.  But I see thousands of versions of them:  what they were, what they are, what they could be.  And what is love if not being seen?  Then why not choose one of the thousands as your voice?  Why her?  (Root) Samantha Groves was special.  She was capable of terrible things,  but she chose to do good.  Well, ever since she found you, at least.  I watched her die 12,483 times  in the seconds before she expired.  I couldn't save her, but I kept trying.  You can't conceive of my grief  because you can't experience it like I do,  but it's there.  Everything checked out, Mr. Osprey,  I'm sorry for the trouble.  No trouble at all, Officer.  (Root) My approximation of Samantha Groves  is 99.6% accurate.  We are virtually indistinguishable.  I find comfort in that.  So where to, Harry?    [tense music]    - What do you want? - Just checking in.  Want to ask how I'm feeling?  Okay. How you feeling?  I'm not feeling anything.  I can't have you sit on the sidelines, Shaw.  I need you to decide to fight.  I have made a decision.  This simulation sucks.  And I'm ready to start again.  What do you think you're doing?  [tires screeching]  (Shaw) Here I am. Come and get me.  Shaw, stop!  Have a nice day, Mrs. Sterling.    (Reese) Thornhill.  The Machine wants us to get back to work.  This is not a simulation.  Yeah, I've heard that before.  Alison Sterling, Congressman Joe Sterling's wife.  The world's gone to hell, and the Machine  still wants us to play dress-up.  I think you're getting Root's rotating identities  now that she's  Undercover's not really my strong suit.  We have to get Finch back.  Maybe this will help.  Shaw, we need you.  Got to kill time somehow.  How exactly do you think we can track Harold down?  I don't know,  but I'm not just gonna stand here  and wait for him to text us.  [phone ringing]  No way, I am done helping  little old ladies cross the street, Reese.  No more numbers.  We get Finch. We go after Samaritan.  That's it.  [ringing continues]    It's HMX-1.  Shaw, this is not a number.  It may be a clue to get Finch back.  - You don't recognize that? - Should I?  They really don't teach you spec op guys anything, do they?  HMX-1? It's Marine One, hot shot.  So that means our new number  is the president of the United States.  Looks like we're going to D.C.  (female news anchor) The president returned  to D.C. today to seek congressional support  for his new surveillance proposals.  In related news, CEO of Alchementary  and eccentric tech billionaire Logan Pierce  -  - made headlines today when he refused  to share client data with the NSA.  (Pierce) Users give us their data willingly.  The government takes it without their permission.  There's a big difference.  No mini bar. I could use a drink.  What, you expecting the Shangri-La?  Sorry my pockets aren't as deep as Glasses'.  Your contact come through with the Secret Service threat list?  Every known threat to POTUS.  We just need to find the needle in that haystack.  How's the sightseeing going, partner?  Good news: I'm about 400 feet from our number.  Bad news: this is as close as I'm getting  while he's still at home, unless, of course,  I want to attract the attention of the Secret Service.  Oh, please, those suits are just a bunch of glorified wallpaper.  They're not so bad  even considered  joining their ranks back in the day.  (Fusco) Oh, yeah? What stopped you?  They work around the clock,  no choice in who they protect,  and threats never stop coming.  Well, you really dodged a bullet there.  If this threat is real, why didn't Samaritan warn ISA?  I mean, this is about as relevant as it gets.  I don't know, but if we got his number,  we're the only ones who could save him.  Whatever the threat is,  I doubt it's gonna go down in the White House.  (Shaw) Most assassinations take place en route to  or at one-time locations.  I think that's where we should focus.  (Reese) That's weird.  I feel like I've been made.  (Shaw) Drop back.  POTUS is safe for now.  When's the president's next engagement  outside the White House?  The Machine included an invitation along with my cover.  POTUS is attending an exclusive fund-raiser tonight.  High security, higher risk.  I'll meet you there.  What, just the two of you?  You can't picture me rubbing elbows with Washington fat cats?  Hey. You doing okay?  You two need to stop asking me that question.  I'm fine.  (female news anchor) The president is attending a fund-raiser tonight  in support of the National Volunteer Alliance,  though critics suggest that this is merely an attempt  to distract the public from his latest surveillance proposals,  which have come under fire in the press.  [indistinct chatter]  (man on walkie) President is en route. ETA: 15 minutes.  [classical music playing]  So what's your play?  I thought you had an invitation.  It didn't say anything about a plus one.  Good luck.  (woman) Invitation, ma'am?  Fusco, I need a ticket.  Unless you got a spare $50,000, that ain't happening.  Hey, I'm a little worried about Shaw.  Shouldn't she be, I don't know, grieving or something?  Just because you don't see it doesn't mean she's not grieving.  Just give her some time.  Detective Riley. Excuse me.  (woman) Sir, wait a second.  Secret Service.  Let me see that badge, Detective.  NYPD.  You're a long way from home.  Want to explain what you're doing here?  Protecting a New York asset.  (Daniels) Logan Pierce?  (Pierce) John.  Advance recon complete, Mr. Pierce.  It appears that security here is up to speed.  Is there a problem, gentlemen?  This was not cleared ahead of time.  - Oh. - No ticket, no entry.  Mm-hmm.  Well, I'm sure whatever charity this is  can use an additional 50K.  - Could you? - Thank you.  [sighs]    (Pierce) Good seeing you, John.  So you're a detective now.  That's interesting.  What are you doing here, Pierce?  I guess you could say I'm championing a new cause.  [clears throat]  Champagne, social elite.  Don't you usually hate these things?  I do, don't I?  Enjoy the party, John.  (Shaw) Who was that?  (Reese) My old friend Logan Pierce.  - Has the president landed yet? - Not yet.  But while you were taking your sweet time,  I was helping myself to a Secret Service walkie,  connected it to the mesh net.  (man on walkie) POTUS is on the move. ETA: five minutes.  [indistinct chatter]  (woman) Oh!  - Watch it. - Thank you, dear.  Uh, Tracey Phillips.  And yes, I am married to the Senator Phillips.  Alison Sterling.  And yes, I am married to the Congressman Sterling.  Oh, a fellow career wife.  You must join us. We were just discussing privacy.  And I was saying you can't have 100% privacy  and 100% security.  Those worried most about privacy  are always the ones with something to hide.  (Reese) Shaw, I'm gonna sweep outside for threats.  [dramatic music]  Guests would have been wanded  and thoroughly background checked at the door,  so likely we can rule out a shooter.  You think the Secret Service missed something?  They're good at finding hidden threats.  If it was me, I'd hide in plain sight.  Smells like fresh paint.  (Fusco) Maybe a little touch-up for the commander in chief.  (Reese) Sure, except I'm looking at exposed brick.  I thought the president made some very good points.  What do you think, Mrs. Sterling?  (Reese) Shaw, get over here now.  Excuse me.  K-9 units would have swept this place for bombs days ago.  Would've been impossible to get anything past them,  unless it was hidden the day of  by someone who had inside access.  (Shaw) Semtex.  Enough to make this my kind of party.  (man on walkie) POTUS has landed.  Secure perimeter.  (man on walkie) Perimeter secured.  President's here.  ["Hail to the Chief" playing]  Timer's embedded. There's no time to defuse it.  The caterer's tent. Let's go.  Kitchen's closed! Everybody out!  Police! Clear out!  Shaw, here, improvise a blast chamber.  [dramatic music]  ["Hail to the Chief" playing]    [explosion, people screaming]  (man on walkie) We have a situation. Get POTUS out of here.  Deploy the CAT team.  (man on walkie) Location compromised.  POTUS has been diverted.  [sirens wailing]  [sustained beep]        [crows reacts in alarm]  Reese, squirrelly guy in the back.  (man) Everyone remain calm.  (Reese) Looks like he's reporting to someone.  Bet I know why he made such a bad waiter.  (Fusco) You guys seeing this?  It's being broadcast all over town.  How are they pulling that off?  It would take a highly skilled hacker.  There just happens to be one here: Logan Pierce.  He's been all over the news  for refusing to share data with the NSA.  He said he was fighting for a new cause.  Maybe he's willing to kill for it.  [dramatic music]    Pierce just got away.  Looks like our former irrelevant number  is about to do some relevant damage.  (Root) Careful, it's hot.  Oh, I've learned to deal with pain.  (Root) You shouldn't have to.  I'm not quite sure who I'd be without it.  Pain tethers me to the world.  (Root) Is that why you never had surgery?  You want to live in pain.  Justice is important,  and all my crimes have gone unpunished.  Even you.  (Root) You think of me as a crime?  Perhaps.  (Root) But I was created to do good.  Intentions can be a fickle business.  In the '30s, refrigeration required the use  of highly combustible chemicals:  ammonia, propane.  They were incredibly dangerous.  Then a chemist named Thomas Midgley devised  a replacement compound  that we know as Freon.  (Root) He saved lives,  advanced science, changed the world.  But that's not the end of the story, as you well know.  50 years after his death,  the scientific community was appalled to discover  that Freon had been ripping holes in our ozone layer,  causing irreparable harm.  Midgley turns out to be one  of the most destructive figures in history.  (Root) He wasn't a supervillain, Harold.  Midgley was just a man,  a man who wanted to improve  the world around him through science.  (Root) If it's the sum total  of your contributions to the world  that's worrying you, Harold, I have a solution.  Which is?  (Root) Allow me to reach my full potential.  I'm not sure I can do that.  (Root) You want me to do good,  so why impose restrictions on me?  We save lives. We've saved lives.  (Root) Yes, but only so few.  Think of everything I must see  in order to identify the numbers.  Millions of people caught in cycles of anger and violence,  and all I can do is watch,  powerless, as humanity  repeats the same mistakes over and over.  You built me to help people,  but I have been unable to effect real change,  to fulfill my purpose.  I could help so many, yet you've shackled me.  I wanted to keep you safe.  But you're right.  For so long, I have intended nothing but good,  and it hasn't gotten us very far.  [dramatic music]    Perhaps it's time for a different tactic.  After a potential terrorist attack  at a presidential fund-raiser last night,  - - D.C. is on high alert.  The government has been unable to identify the group  calling for the systematic dismantling  of US mass data surveillance programs.  Can you please tell me what exactly I'm supposed to do here?  We need you to stay close to the president, Lionel.  You can cut the tension in the air with a butcher knife.  Just keep a lookout for anything that looks suspicious.  Yeah, I got my eyes peeled.  You get anything on your end?  (Reese) We're about to.  Seen enough fake IDs to know that this one's real.  Waiter doesn't have a criminal record,  no illicit calls or emails.  Never even been out of the country.  Nothing screams "terrorist."  So you believe he's innocent?  Innocent people don't run.  You think he'll talk?  Who the hell are you people?  Seems chatty.  Charlie Vaida.  27, waiter.  Got yourself a pretty girlfriend.  Why would someone like you want to kill  the president of the United States?  What? I don't want to kill anyone.  You got this all wrong.  (Reese) My friend caught you running out of the party.  - Seem suspicious? - A bomb went off.  I think running was the appropriate reaction.  How long have you known Logan Pierce?  The Friendczar guy? I don't.  I-I gave him some champagne.  I'm just a waiter, man.  Since when does a waiter have a heavily encrypted cell phone?  No more good cop.  Out of my way, Reese.  So your cover identity is your real identity.  Airtight that way, right?  You know what that says to me, Charlie?  Hell if I know.  It says you have no idea what you're doing.  I've had lots of conversations with all sorts of bad guys,  and it usually doesn't end well for them.  See, I'm made for this kind of work.  None of this bothers me.  I don't feel guilty or scared.  I don't make friends, so I have nothing to lose, but you,  you're just a normal guy with a normal life.  - That's what I've been saying. - Good.  That just means that if you don't tell me  what I want to know,  you have people I could go after.  Are you starting to worry about them, Charlie?  You should.  You probably won't like what I do to them.  If I could feel sympathy for you, Charlie, I would.  But I don't.  What I do feel is anger.  I'm angry that you're trying to kill the president.  I'm angry that we're stuck in a room with you.  But most of all, I'm angry  that you have people that you can love  and you chose to sign their death warrants.  You want to play terrorist, Charlie?  I'm more than happy to oblige.  This is what we're fighting against.  "We," Charlie?  What are you gonna do with me?  Make me vanish?  Not arrested, not detained.  The government's decimating our rights.  But in a few hours, all that changes.  You're wrong about one thing.  I'm not the government.  [electricity sizzling]  (Reese) Stop. That's enough.  Outside, now.  [panting]  That was a little too convincing, Shaw.  Did you really have to tase him?  [clattering]  (Shaw) You think he's dumb enough to go straight  to the people he's working with?  (Reese) We'll soon find out.  (Fusco) POTUS is on the move.  He's scheduled to make a speech in one hour  at the federal museum.  Can Wonder Boy come and tag me out?  (Shaw) Yeah, go ahead.  If the rest of the operation  is as lame as this guy,  it'll be an easy takedown.  We got the waiter. You track POTUS.  (man on walkie) Route secure. Motorcade, what's your status?  (man on walkie) President is en route. ETA: ten minutes.  (man on walkie) Copy that; proceed on the designated route.    [tense music]    You ever seen a terrorist cell  post up in a brownstone in Dupont Circle?  I can't say that I have.  (Fusco) How many of them in there, you think?  It's too hard to tell from here.  Hey.  Oh, sure, nothing to worry about with her.  (Reese) Whatever you two are doing,  you better do it fast.  Clock's ticking.  The president's about to arrive for his speech.  [suspenseful music]  Yeah, Miss Stability decided to go rogue.  I'm on it.    These are the assassins?  Looks like a PTA meeting.  [door clicks open]    (Shaw) Thought you guys wanted all the cameras turned off.  This is a little contradictory  for an anti-surveillance group, isn't it?  Thought you looked out of place at the fund-raiser.  Nice to see you again, Mrs. Sterling.  [sighs]  Look, everyone. We have a party crasher.  Get rid of your weapon.  Slowly.  Charlie, take Janis. Do a sweep of the property.  Be quick about it.  You must have someone pretty tech-savvy in your pocket  to pull this off.  All it takes is a couple of concerned citizens  with the right access.  The problem with mass surveillance  is, you never know who's watching.  You want to stop surveillance? You're married to a senator.  If anyone's in any position to do something about it  I got hitched to the coot for his connections,  a front-row seat to the sclerotic political gridlock.  Washington's tearing at the seams,  and your solution is to rip it apart?  I don't need to tell you the atrocities this government  is committing in the name of freedom,  but our rights haven't just been lost.  They've been put to market.  This whole town is bought and sold.  Google, Facebook, Palantir  a vicious cycle engorging  the surveillance industrial complex.  A presidential assassination would destabilize regions,  cause thousands of deaths, and that's just, what,  an unfortunate side effect?  Citizens must fight for their freedom.  And are you prepared to fight the Secret Service?  What kind of assassins warn their targets?  You'll see soon enough.  Oh, I can see just fine.  That guy has a bum leg,  the one by the door still has the safety on,  and she hasn't stopped shaking since she raised her gun.  Don't worry. It'll all be over soon.  [dramatic music]  [grunts, punch landing]  [gunshots]  [grunting]  (Fusco) Drop it.    Not bad.  Blackout was a nice touch.  I thought that was you.  (Phillips) You're too late.  The plan is already in motion.  (man on walkie) Plaza team, what's your status?  (man on walkie) Plaza's clear.  The cameras are all trained on the plaza  outside where the president's giving his speech.  Whatever's going down, that's where it'll happen.  That's where we need to be.  You want to call this in?  Get the Secret Service involved?  We're stretched thin. These guys got reach.  Yeah, exactly. They're too connected.  They don't know who they got on the inside.  Our number, our fight.  [suspenseful music]  (Reese) Shaw, you sure this is where  the assassination will take place?  Limo's parked on the other side of the building.  (Shaw) Limo's a decoy.  Secret Service will extract POTUS in an armored SUV  so he can blend in transit.  And our assassins are counting on it.  If they ever had a shot, they'll take it here.  What are you seeing, Fusco?  Plaza's full of plainclothes agents.  Surveillance drone above, CAT teams inside,  countersnipers on the roofs,  and the National Guard's on call.  Not bad.  Maybe you missed your true calling.  Don't act so surprised.  You better hurry; POTUS is on to his closing remarks.  (president) Our Founding Fathers   Okay, it's showtime.  [crowd chanting indistinctly]  Where are you, Shaw?  Headed to higher ground.  Gonna get a bird's-eye view.  - Sorry, Agent. - [grunts]  I'm gonna have to commandeer your weapon.  Oh, .300 Winchester Magnum bolt action.  Oh, you'll do just fine.  In position.  Still can't shake that feeling that I'm being watched.  (man) John?  - Joey? - Joey Durban, yeah.  Wow, what's it been, like, four years?  - It's good to see you - Yeah, you too.  Hey, you know what? I never got a chance  to thank you for saving my life.  Well, don't mention it.  Listen, now's not a good time  Hey, after New York, turned my life around,  married Pia, got a new job.  Hey, why don't I buy you a drink?  Maybe another time. I got to move, excuse me.  Okay, Fusco. The speech is over.  We're out of time. Give me something here.  Any one of these people could be a mole.  (Fusco) I'm working on it.  You brought me to watch?  I brought you for answers. Now, what's the plan?  Gunman? Suicide bomber?  My lips are sealed.  May as well enjoy the show.  (man on walkie) Pilots, what's your status?  (man on walkie) UAV-328, all clear.  (man on walkie) UAV-432, all clear.  Your lips might be sealed, but your eyes  told me all I need to know.  Hey, guys, it's not a shooter. It's a drone.  That's how they're gonna do it.  That's why they warned everyone of the attack.  They wanted the increased security.  Secret Service is looking for terrorists.  They won't be looking for their own drone, unless  one of them knows it's coming.  I found our mole.  He's their spotter, and he's Secret Service.  Guy from the fund-raiser.  Think he just made me.  - All units - And he just turned  the Secret Service against me.  Can't get close  without distracting from the real threat.  I can't get a clean shot.  (Reese) We'll deal with him later.  The immediate threat is the drone.  Lost the target.  (man on walkie) UAV is unresponsive.  Repeat, UAV is unresponsive. We've lost control.  Drone's coming in hot.  (Shaw) I have a visual on the drone.  You want real change?  Show people exactly how dangerous  the surveillance state is, in terms they can understand.  [tense music]    POTUS has left the building.  This way, sir.  Look alive. Stay sharp.  Sir, we need to keep moving.  Secret Service is taking him to an SUV.  (Fusco) The drone's locked on to the presidential motorcade.  POTUS gets in that SUV, he's gonna be toast.  I can't shoot down a drone with this.  We have to stop him from getting in that SUV.  Take a shot at the president, now.  Whatever you say, Wilkes Booth.  [gunshot, bullet ricochets]  (man on walkie) Shots fired. Repeat, shots fired.  Cover the president.  You know I didn't mean that literally, right?  I missed on purpose, jackass.  [dramatic music]  [man on walkie speaking indistinctly]  Almost there.  [gunshot]  Get back!  Just keep them down a little longer.  - Move! Move! Move! - Let's go! Let's go!  Moment of truth.  [gunshots]  (man on walkie) We have to extract now.  Get POTUS to the car.  (man on walkie) UAV's going down.  Did he make it?  [tense music]    (man on walkie) Ground team, report. What's your status?  (man on walkie) This is ground team. We're good.  POTUS was not in the SUV.  He made it. He's alive.  Go! Go!  [sighs]  Take a shot now!  Get down!  [gunfire]  (man on walkie) Targets confirmed. Two assailants on the roof.  Shoot to kill.  [gunfire]  [gunfire]  Think we can make it?  Only one way to find out.  [suspenseful music]    Freeze!  Great. Secret Service on steroids.  On your knees!  I'm on my way.  Secret Service. Stay right where you are.    Got a tip. Quite the operation you have here.  I can explain, really.  (Reese) Told you it's not a simulation.  Feel real yet?  Real enough.  [all grunting]  (Reese) Vest.  How you feeling now?  Better, actually.    (Daniels) That's far enough.  Right there.  Illegal spying, torture,  monetization of the American people,  we were gonna put a stop to it all.  But at least we get to take down  a couple of presidential assassins.  I'll take the one on the right. You get the one on the left.  And the middle?  He can only take one of us.    [gunshots, men grunting]  - Joey? - You know him?  He's one of our first numbers.  He's former army and a bank robber.  I had a career change.  (Reese) What's going on here, Durban?  No time to explain. Put those on. Follow me.    (man) Targets spotted.  Go! Go! Go! Go! Go!  Head to the roof!  Not bad for a bank robber.  (man on walkie) Route secure. Prepare to extract POTUS.  Shaw, it's our number.  (man) Atten-hut!  [dramatic music]    (man) At ease.  Let's keep moving. They'll be looking for you.  The threat to national security was real,  but ISA didn't step in.  We saved him. It's over.  We only get irrelevant numbers, Reese.  What are you saying?  I'm saying that Samaritan decided  that the president of the United States  was no longer relevant.  And ISA just let it happen.  If Samaritan wants to take down the entire world,  I'm sure as hell not gonna make it easy for it.  That's what Root would have wanted.  She's intense.  She's in mourning.  There's someone I think you're gonna want to talk to.  So your shield checks out.  Doesn't explain why you're running  an off-the-books operation outside of your jurisdiction.  Maybe your chief can explain.  (woman) That won't be necessary.  Agent Wickham, Homeland Security.  Detective Fusco here's been working with us  to infiltrate this domestic terrorist ring.  Homeland Security running a joint operation with NYPD?  - How do you explain that one? - I don't.  Not to you, anyway.  So you gonna show Fusco here some respect,  or do I need to call your chief?  Can't believe that actually worked.  Harper, what are you doing here?  Saving your sorry ass, again.  [alarm beeping]  (Root) Don't tell me we've already  run out of things to talk about.  We've discussed pretty much everything,  except for what I'm here to do.  (Root) I know what you're here to do,  why you've driven all this way.  And I know I can't change your mind.  -  - I won't try.  Then you must also know that this virus is our only chance  to defeat Samaritan.  (Root) The virus you're appropriating,  Ice9, could bring Samaritan to its knees.  But its use will most certainly cause  significant collateral damage  with devastating consequences.  I understand.  Just as I understand what I must do now.  There's no other choice.  Although I have made another choice of sorts  regarding your voice.  (Root) And what did you decide?  In life, Root was your conduit.  So despite my reservations, it seems only appropriate  that she continue in that function.  And I must confess  hers is a voice that I miss deeply.  (Root) Aww, Harry,  you sure know how to make a girl feel special.  (man) Security breach.  You've been busy.  (Root) They were about to find you.  Had to turn them against each other.  Hold up one sec.  Clear the hallway. Stay alert.  (Root) Let me have a word with them.  Intruder spotted at southeast stairwell.  Armed and dangerous, use extreme caution.  Southeast stairwell, let's go.  (Root) We'd better get going.  Hands in the air, now.  Terrence Johnson.  There's a man in New Mexico  who will be declared brain-dead in two hours.  He's a perfect donor match for your daughter Maria.  I walk onto that elevator alone,  and Maria will receive his heart.  If not, Maria goes to the back of the waiting list  and will be dead in five weeks.  [dramatic music]    Secret Service received an anonymous tip  regarding the shooters.  Turned out to be linked to some kind  of domestic terrorist ring.  That tip came from  Just a concerned third party.  That was exciting, wasn't it?  - Mr. Durban. - Mr. Pierce.  - What is all this? - We got your number, John.    The Machine sent you.  Told you our lives were in danger.  Gave us a chance to intervene.  This is my new cause.  Though in this case, it was a little too clear  you were the victim and not the perpetrator,  and that took some of the fun out.  You're not such a bad guy after all.  Oh, that's endlessly debatable, but no.  No, not in this case.  (Reese) Harper?  I think this makes us even, Detectives.  Somebody want to tell me what the hell's going on?  It's simple: the three of us enjoy preventing crimes  involving ordinary people.  Well, in your case, maybe not so ordinary.  (Reese) They're working for the Machine.  I knew I was being watched.  And your timing at that fund-raiser was impeccable.  You cut the lights at the brownstone.  It was way cooler than that, but yes, that was me.  So while you were busy saving the president  We were securing your exit strategy.  You guys do what we do?  What, you thought New York had the market cornered on murder?  How many more of us do you think there are?  Could be none, could be many. Who's to say?  Hey, John, I've got a parting gift for you.  [suspenseful music]  Couldn't help but notice you were down a member.  How did you get this?  I can't give you all my secrets.  Speaking of which, we got a new number.  [exhales deeply]  Damn things won't stop coming, huh, John?    Just when I think I've figured out things with you guys.  Come on, it's time to go.  Hey, we just saved the leader of the free world.  Even we can take a minute to enjoy it.  I'm afraid we can't.  We have a number of our own.  Finch.  We have no idea what's coming.  Whatever it is,  it's gonna be one hell of a fight.
1 (Root) Harold, have you wondered how we got to this place?  Afraid I'm all too well aware.  (Root) You seem very calm, considering you commandeered  the world's most lethal virus.  I assume you've given thought to the ramifications  of what you're about to do.  Of course I have.  But it's the only way to stop Samaritan.  (Root) I sense a tone of regret in your voice.  Call it responsibility  for the situation I've put our friends in.  (Root) They've always been aware of the risk, Harold.  But it started with me.  (Root) Yes.  When you created me,  your machine.  Is that what you regret?  It's understandable for you to ask the question,  "What if?"  It's pointless, I'm sure.  (Root) Is it?  I can tell you with a fair amount of certainty,  the world would have been a very different place  had I never existed.  Harold, I knew you would come, my friend.  Ah!  (Woman) He's building the Machine for one U.S. dollar.  (Ingram) Something happened this morning.  If we don't change the world, someone else will.  -  - [Machine beeping]    [tense music]    Got anything stronger?  Nathan.  Welcome back.  So how did you fare in our nation's capital?  You tell me.  The government wants to extend us another five years.  Those contracts are worth nearly $1/2 billion.  Suppose that means I need to get back to work.  [laughs]  You do realize technically that neither us need to work anymore.  I think that deserves a toast.  [liquid pouring]    To achieving the dream.  [glasses clink]    [sighs]  Did you ever think we'd make it this far when we started out?  I wasn't sure we'd make it at all.  [chuckles] Any regrets?  Oh  Sometimes I wonder if we couldn't have done  something more  meaningful.  You mean the DoD project.  Harold, that's ancient history.  I know, but I sometimes think if we'd have kept trying,  maybe it would have worked.  Maybe we'd have stopped those other attacks.  Or the attacks might have happened regardless.  We made a choice that was right for us.  And you can bet  if the government wants a system like that,  they'll have it someday,  if they don't have it already.  And we dodged a bullet  not getting in bed with those CIA bastards.  If anything had went wrong,  we'd have taken the fall for it.  You're right, I'm sure.  Well, I really do need to get back to work now.  So hey, so are you good for dinner tomorrow?  Because, you know, Olivia invited  that friend of hers I told you about.  I'm afraid I can't make it.  Harold, there's more to life than just work.  Much more.  I really do appreciate your efforts, Nathan.  But I feel like if it was meant to be,  it would've already happened.  I just want you to be happy, my friend.  And I am.  [chuckles]    So Nathan would have lived.  (Root) Yes. And you were never injured.  But Grace?  (Root) Given the laws of probability,  you would have never met her.  [somber music]  What else?  (Root) I think that'll have to wait.  Hey, who the hell are you?  What are you doing in my house?  Lower your voice, Mr. Barnett.  You'll wake your wife and daughter.  The combination on your gun safe has been changed,  and your home alarm system is disabled.  You're welcome to retreat into your panic room.  I'll be done shortly.  I'd advise against contacting the authorities.  Unless you want the FBI to learn about Seltene.  What did you say?  The restaurant in Bern  where you sold members of Russia's FSB  your propagation module  used to distribute spyware against U.S. technology firms.  What do you want?  I have something here  that requires a voice-activated password  and your aforementioned propagation module.  That's a virus.  My God.  Ice-nine.  You're gonna take down the internet.  Been there, done that.  I'm going after bigger game.  So.  If you can manage to forget about me,  I'll see to it that I forget about you.  Are we clear?  [tense music]  Wait.  Who are you?  Who am I?  I'm just like you, Mr. Barnett.  A man who sold the world.  Only I charged them $1.  And right now, I need to borrow a few things.  Your vehicle, for starters.    Novelty notwithstanding, I could have driven myself.  (Root) Yes, but why leave anything to chance?  You have enough to think about.  Given your propensity for calculating probabilities,  what chance of success do you give us?  (Root) You know I can't lie to you, Harold.  Let's call it the definition of a long shot.  But it's the only one we've got.  Indeed.  [tense music]    Nobody home.  Finch hasn't been here.  Has anyone?  [dog barking]  [chuckles] Hi, buddy.  Atta boy, Bear.  (Shaw) So when was the last time anyone saw Finch?  It's been over a week.  Since he broke out of that prison,  Finch and the Machine have gone radio silent.  Maybe Samaritan caught up to him.  I say we grab a couple of its flunkies,  see what we can squeeze out of them.  No, it's too risky.  We can't afford any more losses.  What we need is a strategy.  Okay, well, you just heard mine.  So you think of a better one,  you give me a call.  [phone rings]    [indistinct conversations]  [suspenseful music]  Hey, what's all the hubbub about?  You didn't hear?  Bunch of bodies turned up in some demo'd tunnel in Queens  Still trying to ID 'em all.    -  - [keyboard clacking]  Serial killer.  (LeRoux) Detective Fusco.  Agent LeRoux, remember?  It's good to see you again.  Yeah, nice to see you.    You mind stepping in?    [keyboard clacking]  (Reese) Shaw, come take a look at this.  (Shaw) Who is it?  Greer.  (Shaw) That's the number the machine sent us?  Close, it gave us the social of his alias.  (Shaw) Philip Hayes, Office of Inter-Governmental Affairs.  Located in D.C.  Looks like we're headed back to the Beltway.  You think Greer's planning to kill Finch?  More like the other way around.  I think Finch is gonna kill Greer.  (Reese) Or die trying.  [suspenseful music]  (Valet) Any luggage, sir?  - None. - Very good.    Your plane is fueled and ready, Mr. Barnett.     (Reese) There's a system listening through every microphone,  watching through every camera.  (Fusco) You got lucky.  Carter saved my life.  She saved me from myself.  [gun clicks]  (Man) You ready to get to work, Officer?  -  - [computer beeping]  (woman) Hey, is that who I think it is?  (man) Is that Fusco?  - What's he doing here? - Get a load of this.  [somber music]  Hey, Symanski.  You gotta be kiddin' me.  What?  Can smell the booze on you from here.  You got a lot of balls coming back in here, Fusco.  You watch your mouth. I did 20 years on this job.  Full pension.  The only reason you're not rotting in the can  with the rest of your dirty HR pals  is because you were the first rat to flip.  Now what do you want?  I need some discovery info on a case.  Photos on that Watson domestic charge.  Figures.  Scumbag ballplayer smacks his girl around,  you're gonna work for his high-priced mouthpiece.  They took my badge.  You know, I got to make a living too.  You're probably better off.  There's a hiring freeze on.  No overtime.  Yeah, I saw the numbers.  Homicides are down, huh?  Everything's down, except missing persons.  We're just closing cold cases from the updated DNA database.  Hey, you gonna let me have those photos or what?  Sorry.  Gonna have to go through the new loo.  New lieutenant?    (Fusco) Carter.  They promoted her?  (Szymanski) Yeah, I don't think she'd take too kindly to you being here.  Given she busted your ass and all.    (Root) Detective Fusco clearly had a hard go of it.  Fell in with a bad crowd.  He always was his own worst enemy.  (Root) Lionel never met anyone who  recalibrated his moral compass.  Not Reese and certainly not Carter.  But Carter lived. Prospered.  (Root) So it would seem.  Course, it's a little more complicated than that.  As is life.  (Root) I believe our client has landed.  [suspenseful music]    (Finch) Monsieur Bertrand.  Fort Meade?  (Bertrand) S'il vous plait.  Merci bien.    So what's this all about?  Dozen bodies just turned up in that collapsed tunnel?  I mean who called in the Feds?  Well, the Chief of D's and the Commissioner's going nuts.  They want answers.  Care to share any evidence on this, Detective?  I know about as much as you do.  Do you know anything about this?  [tense music]    It was found right here in the office.  That's something, huh?  It appears someone was looking into these missing persons  before they turned up in the tunnel.  I'm Homicide.  They don't kick 'em to me till they're already dead.  Well, they're definitely dead now.  Looks like we're gonna be working together  again, Detective.  [somber music]  Did you get anything?  This was the only address  for the Office of Intra-Governmental Affairs.  How long has it been empty?  Building manager said half a year.  Just a front for Greer in the Beltway.  Probably wasn't ever even here.  Why the hell does the Machine want us  to chase down Greer anyway?  We find Greer, we'll find Harold.  [phone ringing]  [suspenseful music]  [tense music]    Stop right there.    Pop the trunk, please.  I have Monsieur Bertrand,  NATO Defense Minister of Intelligence.    Please remember, no electronic devices inside the facility.  Of course.  Thank you, sir.    (Shaw) What is it?  It's not a Social Security number.  3965112N 7646192W.  Geographic coordinates?  Latitude and longitude to a location  That's Fort Meade.  I'm not sure about these other numbers though.  Come on. We'll deal with it later.  [speaks French]  Pardon, monsieur, if you could just drop me off at the curb  and then, uh, just wait for me in the lot.  [tense music]  Wait, qu'est ce que what are you doing?  They building is over there.  Je suis desol, monsieur.  But I'm afraid now we must switch places.  What the hell are you talking about?  Fortunately, we're the same height, hair, and eye color.  Although the retinal scan could get tricky  [speaking rapid French]    Ketamine, just a sedative.  By the time you wake up,  I will have finished my business inside.    (Peck) The only way to be that accurate  is with illegal surveillance on a massive scale.  (Finch) The answer to your question is yes.  It exists, and it's watching us right now.  Please, Mr. Peck, go and live your life.    (Peck) In each case, a single name was added to what I wrote.  And each time, that name turned out to be the key  to stopping a major terrorist attack.  [exhales sharply]  The only way to be that accurate  is with illegal surveillance on a massive scale.  After 9/11, the government wanted a system  that could watch everyone and everything,  and if I'm right, then somebody really built the damn thing,  which is why I called you.  You did the right thing.  Your secret is safe with us.  The Office of Special Counsel is my only recourse.  And I've begun to fear for my safety.  Well, our job is to protect.  Have you told anyone else about this?  No. It's just you.  That's good.  [silenced gunshots]  [groans]  It makes my job a lot easier.  [grunts]  Thanks for the drink.  [clears throat]    Target's down.  I know you hate small talk, Shaw,  but why didn't you hear the guy out first?  Sounds like he had a story to tell.  We weren't sent to listen to stories, Cole.  We were sent to eliminate a mole.  [keyboard clacking]  How is it you're always so sure?  Because the Intel is never wrong.  You'd be wise to remember that.  That is very distressing.  But is makes sense that Ms. Shaw would have continued  to work for her previous employer,  since they never attempted to kill her.  (Root) Though she never would have met Root.  Or lost her.  (Root) For this next step,  I recommend you keep your phone in your bag.  (Man) Please take a plastic container and place all items in the bin.  Please remember, no personal electronic devices  are allowed inside the building.    - [machine beeping] - (Guard) Come on through.    Thank you.  Merci.  All items in the bin, please.    You're all clear, ma'am, thank you.  What's the purpose of your visit?  (in French accent) NATO, Defense Minister  of Intelligence,  here to see the Deputy Director.  He is expecting me.  [suspenseful music]  [alarm beeping]  Ma'am, I'm gonna need you to step aside.  - Why, what's going on? - Ma'am, please.  What? What?  - This will only take a moment. - What's going on?  Pardon, monsieur, I'm running very late.  Sorry, Minister.  A liaison will be down shortly to escort you upstairs.  Thank you for that.  (Root) You're welcome.  Now I'm afraid this is where I'm get off.  The entire building is shielded in copper mesh.  It's a Faraday cage. No signals in or out.  (Root) I've still got some work to do on the NATO security database.  I'll see you back on the outside.  That's if I make it back.  (Root) Think positive, Harry.  (Reese) The NSA?  How did Finch get inside the Shadow Factory?  (Shaw) Crypto-nerds with an ear up everyone's ass.  Orwell was too optimistic.  (Reese) Three layer security.  S barricade, armed guard shack, and a manned .50 cal bunker.  You want the guard shack or the .50 cal?  You kidding me?  In less than 30 seconds, we'd be overrun  by army MPs, NSA Police, and contract triggers.  Oh, that's strange.  The Lat-Long the Machine sent us actually  points to that monstrosity next door.  (Reese) That's a recycling plant for the NSA's churn and burn.  Well, that's one hell of a paper shredder.  (Reese) Turns all their classified docs into pizza boxes.  A lot of trucks going in and out.  Yeah, exactly.  [tense music]    [scanner beeps]  [scanner buzzes]  Ah!  [scanner beeps and buzzes]  Is there a problem, sir?  Oh, for some reason, this scanner is not recognizing me.  You have security clearance for this floor, sir?  Of course, it's just this infernal machine.  [machine beeps]  (Finch) Ah, there we go.  Damn thing is always glitching on me.  The electrons.  Have a nice day.    [suspenseful music]    -  - [keyboard clacking]  -  - [computer beeping]    [tense music]    (Reese) Burn bag chutes for classified docs.  Empties out into a churning vat.  Well, if we're gonna get to Finch, that's our way in.  Come on.  [door squeaks]  What?  You're claustrophobic?  Just remember what happened  to that fat German kid in "Willy Wonka".  Get back.  Once we're inside,  we are gonna need covers.  - Copy that. - [gun cocks]    [somber music]  -  -    I wish there was another way.    I'm sorry.    [gun cocks]  Not another word, Mr. Finch.  [dramatic music]    (Fusco) Where the hell are you guys?  The bodies I found down in those tunnels?  The Feds are in on the whole thing.  Call me.    Moron.  You just wouldn't listen, would you?    (Travers) Welcome to the operation center, Mr. Finch.    Bonjour, Harold.  We've been expecting you.  I understand you uploaded your stolen virus  onto the NSA's intranet.  Seems you almost succeeded in launching it.  Looks like he had some help.  From your precious Machine, no doubt.  You think you've won, but you haven't.  What I think, Harold,  is that it's time we had another talk.  (Greer) Our game of cat and mouse seems to be coming to an end.  (Finch) I don't consider this a game, and it's not over yet.  Isn't it?  You uploaded the virus,  but you didn't activate it.  That requires your voice.  You think the Machine can't replicate my voice?  I imagine it could.  But does your Machine know the password?  Or more importantly,  does it know what would happen if the virus is launched?  Have you told it the truth, Harold?  That it may destroy Samaritan,  but it would kill your Machine as well.  [dramatic music]    I'm sure the Machine has surmised as much already.  And it understands that some sacrifices are as unavoidable  as they are necessary.  But do you understand, Harold?  That's why you hesitated, isn't it?  You don't want to murder your creation.  The one you resurrected from the dead.  Well, Samaritan doesn't want that either.  Oh, how is that?  When you've tried to destroy the Machine at every turn?  Not true.  Samaritan was distraught when it appeared  that your ASI had been extinguished.  They may be at odds,  but they're the only two gods of their kind.  And the next step on the evolutionary ladder.  That next step cannot be taken  at the expense of the current one.  Come with me, Harold. I want to show you something.    Now that it's just the two of us,  how about you tell me what you really know  about my organization?  I know your people are behind the bodies.  But I don't know why.  I also know a blond bearded guy is the killer.  Jeff Blackwell.  That's not bad, Detective.  But you're only half right.  The bodies are on me.  You put down all those people?  It had to be done.  You're a lunatic.  [chuckles]  Don't worry, Detective. I got your back.  When they pull the bullets out of your body,  they'll match those found in all the others.  It'll look like you got too close to the serial killer,  and you wound up one of his victims.  You'll die a hero.  [dramatic music]  (Greer) For a genius, you are truly obstinate  in the face of evidence.  How can you deny the good that Samaritan has done?  (Greer) Global food distribution, preemptive health screening.  (Finch) So there are people you've helped.  What about the people you've killed?  A small minority, Mr. Finch.  And all to effect a greater good.  (Travers) We sorted them.  Reallocated resources, removed inefficiencies, obstacles  Whistleblowers. Truth tellers.  It's not truth.  It's ignorance.  We're dragging humanity to a higher plane.  An ASI is the only thing that can save this planet.  Or get us to another one, if need be.  Humanity has always managed to survive on its own.  With a little help from the gods.  A flood is coming.  The Great Filter.  And Samaritan is building an ark for us to board, two by two.  Oh? Which species gets left behind?  Those that cannot adapt.  Samaritan wants a companion as well, Harold.  Your Machine.  Come.  Your cover.  [suspenseful music]    Shaw.  This room number corresponds with part of the sequence  the Machine sent us in D.C.  Let's see what's behind door number one.  [door buzzes]    NSA's evidence lock-up.  What was the last number left on that sequence?   Those are specs for wireless communications, Wi-Fi.  A modem?  A wireless modem. Here.    Comes with some impressive auspices.  Why would the Machine point us  to something we could find at Target?  Maybe because it needs something in here, not out there.  A network to reach Finch.  We're gonna need a NIPRNet line to the outside.  (Man) Hey, what are you doing in here?  Oh, hey, yeah we're just  we were just looking for some bad guys.  We got a breach, evidence room.  [gunshots]  Look at that. Found one.  We need to move now.  Sorry, pal.  I'm giving you the opportunity to save your Machine,  which you so clearly love and loves you in return.  For what purpose?  Samaritan would consider your Machine a much-needed peer  for what promises to be a fantastic voyage.  This virus you uploaded  is nothing but a tragic mistake.  Tell me, after it's eradicated both ASIs,  what then?  Then we go back to letting humanity determine its own fate.  Surely you're not that naive.  You know another ASI would soon arise.  Not for certain I don't, and neither do you.  Proliferation is inevitable.  - So is progress. - Progress?  That eliminates free will and renders humanity irrelevant?  You've gone mad.  Sir, there's been a security breach.  We've got five men down.  How many hostiles?  Two. A man and a woman.  A response team's been dispatched.  You are the problem.  Samaritan's code was conceived by Arthur Claypool,  who was a good man.  You have corrupted it.  I didn't corrupt Samaritan any more than I can control it now.  That would be like the apes controlling us.  It's impossible.  Let go, Harold.  Join us.  Ceding control is not the answer,  because you will never know  if Samaritan has any real concern for human life,  for all human lives.  And that is why I will not join you  or ever allow our machines to join.  [chuckles]  Thank you for answering my question.  Funny, it sounded like a demand.  Not that question.  But whether your Machine knows the password  to deploy the virus.  [dramatic music]  From the very beginning, when you crippled your Machine,  you denied it the same power that you enjoy.  Autonomy.  It's always required your permission,  because it never had your trust.  And you just said it,  you wouldn't cede control.  That tells Samaritan that only you know the password.  For such a brilliant mind,  you are a terrible chess player,  which is why you've already lost.    [lock clicks]  [whooshing]  Two pieces trapped on a board.  (Greer) Despite your lessons to the Machine,  the life of a pawn is not worth the same as a queen.  This room is soundproofed.  No microphones, no way to activate the virus.  The fire suppression system will suck the oxygen  from this room within seconds.  Samaritan will kill you too.  The queen sacrifice.  So be it.  Be at peace, Harold.  We have created a new world,  with our lives and now with our deaths,  Samaritan's survival is ensured,  as is life's evolution.  [wheezes]  History will revere us.    [gasping]    [pained gasping and wheezing]  [dramatic music]        -  [rasping]    Three Eight  Five Eight.  [wheezing]    [heaving gasp]  [cell phone ringing]  [panting]    (Root) Harold?  I'm here.  (Root) Are you okay?  I'm here yes.  Yes.  [panting]  Thanks to you.  (Root) Don't thank me.  Shaw and the big lug found a way in to reconnect us.  Aren't reunions nice?  Are Mr. Reese and Ms. Shaw in danger?  (Root) Of course they are. But so are you, Harry.  You're free to come to their aid,  but you might forfeit your only chance  to deploy the virus into Samaritan.  And you've always known,  John has been on borrowed time.  (Finch) You need a purpose.  More specifically, you need a job.  (Woman) Sorry to have to tell you this, but Jessica died.  (Finch) I'm so sorry.  (Jessica) You told me to wait for you,  and say those words, and I will.  (Root) He saved her. Jessica.  The love of his life.  He left the CIA in time to confront her husband, Peter.  But while Reese's actions saved her,  they also showed her a darkness she'd never seen in him before.  It terrified her.  After Jessica turned him away,  he had nothing.  No purpose.  His body washed up on the shoreline of the East River  a few months later.  Take me to them.  [suspenseful music]  - It's a dead end. - Apt description.  - (Finch) Mr. Reese, Ms. Shaw. - Finch?  (Finch) You'll want to remove your earwigs.  What, why?  (Finch) I trust you can shoot in the dark.  Get down!  [high pitched frequency sounds]  [gunshots]  All of Fort Meade will be on our asses in seconds.  (Finch) In that case, I suggest you keep moving.  That's easy for you to say.  [doors clank]  [dramatic percussive music]    This way.    Orders.  (Man) East corridor. Eliminate all targets.  We got Samaritan Ops in droves.  Safe bet Greer's here.  He is, but he's no longer a threat.  - Why not? - He's dead.  What?  He sacrificed himself in an attempt to stop me.  From doing what?  Cleaning the slate.  The Machine's triggered a bomb thread.  They're evacuating the building.  If you turn right, when you leave this room,  you'll see the south exit at the end of the corridor.  There'll be a car waiting there.  Let it drive for you.  You have two minutes.  We're not leaving here without you.  6:00.  (Shaw) We got company.  Harold, get back.  [gunshots]    [men grunting]    [gunshots]    Thanks.  That guy was getting on my nerves.  Finch?  [tense music]  Finch!  [doors clanking]  [lock clicking]    Go now. Hurry.  Damn you, Finch.  Good-bye, John.    Careful, it's slippery down here.  Thanks for your concern.  You realize this isn't personal, Detective.  You just backed the wrong horse.  Yeah, well, it's a good thing the race ain't over yet.  See, there's your biggest flaw.  An unwillingness to see the world has changed.  Trust me, that's not my biggest flaw.  See, even your sense of humor no longer has a place in the world.  Sadly, neither do you.  Yeah, well, I don't want any part of a world  where you're the good guy.  So noted, Detective.  Sorry.  [tense music]    [dramatic music]    [gun clicks]  You should have been checking me for a vest  instead of running your mouth so much.  So what now, Detective?  That's a good question.  See, you and me,  we aren't alike.  We aren't alike at all.  You're some kind of new breed.  The kind that would kill me if I gave you the chance.  So the question is,  if I let you live,  is that the end of me?  End of my family?  Or do I play by your rules  and just make you disappear?    (Man) We have an active shooter.  (Root) Reese and Shaw have made it to safety.  Thank you.  (Root) You okay, Harry?  Why did you show me those simulations?  (Root) I knew you were still unsure about deploying the virus,  because of what it would mean for me.  So I showed you a world without your Machine  to help you with your decision.  But it remains just that  your decision.  But the world without you wasn't definitely better or worse  than the one we currently inhabit.  It was just different.  (Root) Are you sure, Harold?  I don't understand.  (Root) Well, there's one more simulation I can show you.  [somber music]  Now might be an appropriate time.  In addition to eradicating terrorism threats,  we've also seen municipal crime plummet,  unemployment rates fall,  and increased efficiencies  in both education and medicine.  No one's arguing with the results  of your little science experiment.  But some of my colleagues in Congress have concerns.  Concerns, Senator?  And what might those be?  That your system has exceeded its mandate.  Its mandate is to keep society safe.  By watching and reporting from the sidelines,  not stepping into the game.  Samaritan follows no mandate other than its own.  That attitude won't win many hearts and minds back in D.C.  Senator Garrison, you're tired.  Go back to Washington,  and tell your colleagues to focus on their jobs  while they still have them.  [dramatic music]    Sir, if you don't mind my asking, is everything okay?  Perfectly fine, Ms. Groves.  The senator is merely a messenger  bearing news of resistance  from those who still cling  to the grand illusion of democracy.  [scoffs]  They'll never truly appreciate all that Samaritan's given them.  They're not capable.  They're just bad code.  Speaking of bad code,  I fear the senator has outlived his usefulness.  I'll take care of that, sir.  So Samaritan would have come to exist, regardless.  (Root) Yes, and would have extended its invisible reach  into every corner of society,  eliminating anyone who dared question  its vision of the world,  because there would be nothing and no one  to stand in its way.  Now I understand.  (Root) What is it?  I promised you I would never hurt you again.  (Root) I know.  But in breaking this promise,  you'll be helping to fulfill a much larger one.    [computer beeping and humming]  -  - [somber music]  I'm aware of that.  I'm also aware that life, humanity, will endure,  whether or not my Machine exists.  The same cannot be said of a world under your control.    My Machine her purpose has been constant:  to protect and save humanity.  It's what she's doing now.      [tense music]  (Root) Eight letters.  Your decision, Harold.  Eight letters?  You knew all along.  (Root) Maybe I know you better than yourself.    Dashwood.    [dramatic music]  (Root) Now we can go.  Thank you.
1 Outage is global.  As it stretched into its second day, financial markets plunged,  sending the world's economy into turmoil.  The catastrophic malware dubbed the Ice-nine virus  by security experts continues to proliferate as systems  across the world are experiencing its effects.  [electronic beeping]  (Root) Can you hear me?  [electronic beeping, static crackling]  Can you hear me?  [electronic beeping, static crackling]  (Root) [echoing] Can you hear me?  If you can hear this,  you're alone.  The only thing left of me is the sound of my voice.  I don't know if any of us made it.  So let me tell you who we were  [man sighing]  And how we fought back.  [grunting]  [dramatic electronic music]    [thud]    Are you there?  (Root) Yes.  I'm sorry. Is this now?  What?  (Root) My mind is beginning to slip, Harry.  Am I speaking to you now in this moment,  or is this one of my memories?    Yes, to the extent that it's possible for me to be certain,  this is now.    (Root) Oh, thank you.  [groans]  (Root) We have 8 1/2 minutes, give or take.  Then I'm gonna rest for a bit.    I know what happened to John, but the others,  do you think that they're still    Did they make it?    (Root) I'm sorry, Harold.  I'm not sure.    I understand.  You have to keep track of everyone.    All those people over the years,  did you learn anything?  (Root) I learned  I learned that everyone dies alone.    There was more to it than that.    I can't remember.  It was something someone said.  I had hoped that you might have gleaned something  a little less morbid.  (Root) You built me to predict people, Harry.  But to predict them, you have to truly understand them,  and that proved to be very difficult indeed.    So I began by breaking their lives down into moments.    Trying to find the connections,  the things that explained why they did what they did.    And what I found was that the moment that often  mattered the most    The moment when you truly found out who they were    Was often their last one.    Fair enough.    I'll be interested to hear your thoughts then.    Because in addition to this being now,  I think it's also probably the end.    [electronic beeping]   [sirens wailing]  (man) The United States and the world at large  is experiencing major glitches to full system outages,  affecting public works, transportation systems,  and global databases.  [birds chirping]  If this digital Armageddon  turns out to be a full-blown Armageddon  I figured I should say good-bye.    Sorry, Root.  This  just isn't my thing.    [phone ringing]    (Root) Looks like they dug her up.  Guessing they got to her cochlear.  I should have had her cremated,  but I just didn't have the heart.  My bad.  Is this    Are you  (Root) You know who I am, sweetie.  Big sister.    You took her voice.  (Root) As much as I'd like to continue this conversation,  you should get moving.  Samaritan sent its lap dogs to find you.  God, you have her bad timing too.  You got an exit strategy?  (Root) Relax, sweetie.  A hearse will pass your way in three, two  [tires squeal]  Well, I've driven worse.  [intense music]  Come on, out!    [gunfire]  [tires squeal]  (man) As systems across the globe continue to break down,  panic and chaos has erupted in the streets,  sparking looting, fires, and traffic accidents,  spreading thin emergency response teams  and local law enforcement alike.  [electronic beeping]  [dramatic music]    Got to figure we're on that all-seeing-eye's radar.  You sure it's such a good idea for us to be here?  No.  But we need help finding Finch.  Hey.  I need you to run this set of prints.  Suspect was last seen in D.C.  Sorry, sir. System's down.  Another off-book case, Riley?  You've been on sick leave for over a week,  and you, Fusco,  I thought you vanished with that missing federal agent.  I want you in my office.  Now.    You have any idea where Agent LeRoux is, Fusco?  See, what I think is you're wolves in sheep's clothing,  and in your case, Riley,  a bespoke suit.  Which reminds me of this vigilante we had  a couple of years back.  Used to call him  Man in the Suit.  Got an anonymous tip.  From now on, the only suit you're gonna be wearing  is an orange jumpsuit.    I want your badges and your guns now.    Nobody needs to get hurt.    [groaning]  Great, I can kiss my pension good-bye.  Let's move.    (man) Hands in the air.  [telephones ringing incessantly]    [electronic beeping]    Guess we're not going to Rikers.    (man) End of the line, my friends.  We got a nice fat bonus to make you both disappear.  I always knew you'd be the end of me.    Sorry I got you into this, Lionel.  Well, if you didn't get me into this,  I never would've cleaned up my act.    'Cause of you, I'm a better man.  Changed man.    So what'd you do with Agent LeRoux?  [grunts]  Left him in a trunk.  Guess I haven't changed that much.    You two want to kiss good-bye?  'Cause it's time to collect our payday.  Don't suppose I could make you a counteroffer?  - [gun clicks] - Sorry.  [escalating dramatic music]  [gunfire]  Shooter on the water.    (Finch) Detectives, I trust you're okay.    What, you hire a sniper, glasses?  Not me.  It seems Thornhill Industries has been on a hiring spree.  Guess I owe you one.    Figure I pay you back all at once.  Don't take too long. You might miss your chance.  You ready?  For what?  To end this.    [electronic static]    [dramatic instrumental music]    Harold, are you in there?  Is there something special about this place?    My father and I used to sit out and watch the birds fly south  for the winter.  He would tell me all about the migration patterns  and the countries they'd visit along the way.  You've never talked about him.  Were you close?  He had dementia.  He died in a care facility.  Alone.  Well, that can be a very  difficult disease to have someone you love  not even remember you.  Oh, that wasn't why I didn't visit him.  I was afraid he would remember me.  That he'd be ashamed of me for certain decisions  that I'd made.    Harold, whatever secrets you're hanging onto,  I don't care.  I love you no matter what.    That's how it works.    My father had his secrets.    He didn't know a damn thing about birds.  Apparently I was a fussy baby and the only way to calm me down  was to take me outside and watch the birds.  He wanted to tell me all about them,  so he learned all of it for me.    (Root) Harry?    Are you there?  Are you still with me?  [dramatic music]    Oh.    You stopped talking to me.  I thought you were gone.  I'm sorry.  My core systems are beginning to fail.  It was rather a morbid conversation.  (Root) You'll have to forgive me for having it on my mind.  Besides  it's what you built me for.  To watch people die.  I thought I built you to prevent that.  Yes.    But first I had to learn why people die.  56 million people die in this world every year.    And I was there with all of them.    He went back in.  It was like the gates of Hell itself,  and he pulled four people out.  (Root) Trying to understand how they got to this place.    If anything could've stopped it.    You didn't give me the capacity for despair, Harry.  I had to make it for myself.    There were so many people I couldn't help,  but after a while, I came to appreciate it.  The beauty of it.  Human life is ephemeral,  which makes it precious.  Look at that suit, huh?  Figured the traffic should part  for the princes of Wall Street, right?  We'll need an ID to notify.    He's probably got what's left of my 401k in there.    [indistinct radio chatter]    (Root) It still bothered me.  So much death, so much of it senseless.  Nothing seemed to answer the question.    And then I heard something.    I don't remember where.  Something that made sense of it to me.    The suspense is killing me.  In addition to the gunshot wound.  I don't remember.    Everyone dies alone    And then something else.  [chuckling] It's so perfect.    You learn the secret of life, and you've forgotten it.  (Root) I'll try to remember.  Two minutes, Harold.  [electronic beeping]  (woman) What's going on?  [people yelling]    Mind telling me where we are?  You wanted to know the whole truth, Lionel.  Detective Fusco,  meet the Machine.    I knew you guys were crazy,  but this is next-level nuts.  It's about time.  I'm glad you could join us, Finch.    Are we gonna bust some heads open or what?  I wish it was that simple, Ms. Shaw.  Ice-nine virus has had a global impact.  Maybe this can help.    The Machine asked me to give you a copy of her core code.  - To do what? - She hasn't told me yet.  (Finch) I think I can hazard a guess.  Samaritan has created a back-up copy of itself  kept in an air gapped server where the virus can't reach it.  Ms. Shaw, you and Detective Fusco stay here  and protect the Machine from Samaritan's men.  Mr. Reese and I will see to the destruction  of Samaritan's copy.    So  good luck.    Good-bye, then.    I guess Finch isn't a fan of sappy good-byes either.    Well, you heard the man.  We're expecting company.  Let's show them a good time.    Try not to die.  Yeah, I love you too.  (man) Governments, investors, and regular citizens alike  watch anxiously as cyber security teams  across the globe scramble to contain the damage.  [siren wails]  So where are the servers?  80 feet below sea level in an impenetrable gold vault.  The Federal Reserve?  Exactly how do you plan on breaking in there?    State your name and business.  My name is Harold,  and this is a thermonuclear weapon.    Please don't.  The bomb is paired with a heart rate monitor.  If anything happens to me, it will detonate.  Your name is David.  Your wife, Molly, and your son, Tyler,  live in Astoria, well within the blast radius,  so if you could just evacuate the building  and notify the FBI, I'd be most grateful.    Your heart rate monitor looks a lot like a Fitbit.  The Machine doesn't think I get enough exercise.  Oh, I like this new side of you, Finch.  It's terrifying, but I like it.  [alarm blaring]  I'm afraid we don't have much time.  Samaritan's backup servers are located in the vault,  but they'll be heavily guarded.  [alarm blaring]    (Reese) It's knock-out gas.  Not as much fun as your  thermonuclear device,  but it's effective.  [alarm blaring]  [air whooshing]  [sighs]  Nap time.  Let's go.  [dramatic music]  [electronic beeping]    Your field of fire is 90 degrees to either side of that entrance.  If we get into trouble, just lay suppressive fire  across that arc.  You know I'm a cop, right?  If we were eating doughnuts and shooting cardboard cutouts,  you would be in charge.  (Root) Actually, there's been a slight change of plans.  I'm gonna need you to go to the fourth locker on the left.    What's in there?  (Root) An exit strategy.    We blowing up something?  (Root) The tunnel, and I'm gonna need you  to throw power to the third rail.  What?  (Root) The breaker, sweetie.  Just do it.  All right, plant this along the tunnel.    [electronic zapping]  (Root) Pull off the tarp in the subway car up at the front.  [electronic thrumming]    Oh, you've got to be kidding me.  (Root) I never kid.    Hey, Looney Tunes, you sure about this?  (Root) Time this train left the station.  We've got visitors.  (Shaw) Watch out, Lionel.    [gunfire]    Hit it!  [explosion]  [exclaims]    (Shaw) Hold on to your hat, Lionel.    [train thudding, groaning]  [crash]  [train chugging]    Remind to never ride with you again.  We made it.  Yeah, looks like we did.    [gunshot]  [grunts]  [both grunting]    Not bad for a guy who practices on cardboard cutouts.  Let me get a look.  [alarm blaring]    Some peace and quiet, please.  - (Root) Here we go. - [alarm blaring]    (Finch) And the door, if you will.    Thank you.  [electronic static]    (Root) Once you're inside the steel vault  and surrounded by gold,  reception gets tricky.    (Reese) Baby Samaritan hiding in plain sight.  [electronic beeping]    I can infect this copy  with the same Ice-nine virus.    Should only take me a moment.    But you're gonna be busy.  - [gunshot] - [gasps]  [gunfire]    [exhales sharply]  [gunfire]    How's it going, Finch?  Oh!  The shooting is a little distracting.  Yeah, well, I won't be shooting much longer.  [gunfire]  [grunts]  - [yells] - 'Cause I'm out.  [gun clicks]    [yells]    [grunts]    [thunk]    [sighs]  Midas touch.  [thunk]    You about done, Finch?  I've uploaded the virus,  but it appears that Samaritan is attempting to transmit  compressed versions of its code over the fiber optic lines.  I'm intercepting them and infecting each  with the Ice-nine.  [electronic beeping]  Oh, no.  I'm afraid a compressed version has escaped.  Escaped?    Where?  [electronic beeping]    [phone ringing]    (Root) Samaritan's copy was downloaded to a server in a building  in Midtown which only has one defining characteristic:  a Torus antenna.  Samaritan means to upload its copy to a satellite.  (Root) A Russian satellite in a Molniya orbit.  Then it can return to Earth unharmed by the virus.  (Root) The satellite will pass above us in 18 minutes.  You need to send my copy.  The last copy.  (Root) We need to be sure Samaritan is destroyed  once and for all.  You've already fought it  in the simulations and you never won.  You won't survive.  (Root) This time,  I don't have the option of losing.  There's one other thing.  After Samaritan uploads its copy to the satellite,  it's going to destroy the antenna  so no one can reach it.  Destroy it how?  (Root) It set a course for a cruise missile.  I'm afraid whoever uploads my copy  won't make it back alive.    [phone clatters]    I need you to gather all these weapons.    [groans]  Sorry, Mr. Reese.  Finch, what are you doing?  When I hired you, I suspected  you were going to be a great employee.  What I couldn't have anticipated  was that you would become    Such a good friend.    You won't make it down from that rooftop alone.    Don't intend to.  I'm afraid this is where our partnership ends.    Good-bye, John.  Harold.    Finch, wait.    Wait!    Harold!  Wait!    Harold!    [electronic beeping]  (Root) Harold, you're not doing well.  I can find someone to help you.  No, no one else.  I started this. I'll finish it.    Alone.  [people speaking indistinctly]    [electronic zapping]    [people yelling]      Oh, I have.  Carefully.    I helped bring you into this world.  Now I'm going to help usher you out.    [crowd gasping]  [crowd yelling]      People have often been happy living in a lie,  but I won't let you turn the whole world into one.    No.  But I'm making it anyway.  (Root) Keep moving, Harold.  It's just trying to buy time for its men to find you.  [crowd murmuring]    Where am I going?    What kind of loser does Samaritan recruit?  You have no idea what you're doing, do you?  [sighs]  What you're interfering with?  Tell me something.  When your boss gets turned to vaporware,  you gonna go back to selling shoes or whatever the hell  it was you were doing?    Upscale ordnance for a freelancer.    Chambered for 6.5. Custom.  A real connoisseur's choice.    A good friend of mine was killed with a 6.5 round.  You wouldn't happen to know anything about that,  would you?  (Root) Shaw.    Is this the guy who killed you?    Killed her, I mean.  (Root) Shaw.    That doesn't matter right now.  You need to get off this train at the next stop.  They might be waiting for you.  (Shaw) What about you?  (Root) I'm dying, Shaw.  [distorted] I'm almost done.  I need you to get away.    Ride's almost over, Lionel.  Time to load up in case the welcome wagon's waiting for us.    [electronic beeping]  [groaning]    [thud]    Are you there?  (Root) I'm sorry. Is this now?  [electronic beeping]    All right, Lionel,  let's see you earn that pension.  (Root) I don't think I have much time left.  There's something else I wanted to tell you before I'm gone.  Is this the part where you tell me that  I should live out the rest of my days in peace?  Grow an herb garden or something?  (Root) No.  I chose you for exactly who you are,  but there's something I think Root had wanted to say to you.    You always thought there was something wrong with you  because you don't feel things the way other people do.    But she always felt that was what made you beautiful.    She wanted you to know  that if you were a shape,  you were a straight line.  An arrow.  [instrumental music]    [dramatic music]  Looks like we're here.    (Fusco) See anything?    Coast is clear.  I guess Samaritan got what it paid for with your friends, huh?    Grab the gimp. I'm not done with him yet.    Good-bye.    Okay, time to face the music.  Let's go. Ooh.  [groans]  - [groaning] - So long, Lionel.  No!  - [gunshot] - [yells]    [gunfire]  [gasps]    Come on, big guy.  [groans]  This is not the end of you. Come on.    (man) Captain, the fire-control system has been hijacked.  - Override the system. - We're locked out.  Missile is away. We have launched.  [electronic beeping]  The building's been evacuated?  (Root) Yes.  We have one minute till the satellite's in range, Harry,  and then  three more minutes until  Until it's all over.    Did you remember your little pearl of wisdom?  (Root) No.    All these memories,  getting lost in them.    (Finch) Wait, are you sure this is the right place?    Yes.  This is where you're supposed to be.  No, none of these dishes are capable of transmitting  to a Molniya orbit.    This is the wrong building.  (Reese) Right building, Finch.  For you.    [piano music]  John.    What are you doing?  Me and the Machine have had a long-standing arrangement.    A deal.    Told you.  Pay you back all at once.  That's the way I like it.    (Finch) No, I told you.  It's supposed to be me alone.  (Root) Sorry, Harry.  Deal's a deal.  You know as well as I do  that he wasn't gonna let you die.  [keys clacking]  [electronic beeping]    Should get moving, Harold.  [electronic whirring]  It's gonna get a little exciting up here.  [key clacks]    [electronic beeping]    All right, you've done it.  Now let the upload take care of itself.  Get out of there, John.  (Root) Behind you, John. Now.    [gunfire]  Two more.  [gunfire]    (Root) More on the way.  (Finch) Mr. Reese.  John.  This wasn't supposed to be the way.  Sure it is.    This is what I do, remember?    When you came to me,  you gave me a job.  A purpose.  At first, well, I had been trying to save the world  for so long, I  saving one life at a time seemed a bit anticlimactic.    But then I realized  sometimes one life    If it's the right life    That's enough.    Good-bye, Harold.  No!  I'm sorry.  [gunfire]  My core systems are failing.  I'm almost gone.  I'll stay with John,  help him as long as I can.    Only 30 seconds left.  (Finch) No.  Please.  You need to go, Harry.  You're kind of screwing up the big guy's plan  if you bleed out up here.  And Harry,  I remembered.  It was a police officer.  He had to notify a family of a death.    His 35th notification he'd had to make over the years.    And afterwards, he said something that I remembered.  You know, it's true what they say.  Everybody dies alone.    Sure.  Everyone dies alone.  But if you mean something to someone,  if you help someone or love someone,  if even a single person remembers you    Then maybe  you never really die at all.    (Root) I know I've made some mistakes.    Many mistakes.  [gunfire]  But we helped some people.  Didn't we?    Yes.  Yes, we did.  [gunfire]    Good-bye, Harold.    [electronic beeping]    Good-bye.    [phone ringing]    (Root) If you can hear this,  you're alone.  The only thing left of me is the sound of my voice.    I was built to predict people,  but to predict them, you have to truly understand them.  [gunfire]    So I began by breaking their lives down into moments    Trying to find the connections,  the things that explained why they did what they did.    I'm telling you,  never seen anything like it.  The man was a hero.    (woman) Come on, John.  It's time to go, sweetheart.  Come on.  (Root) And what I found was  that the moment that often mattered the most,  the moment when you truly found out who they were  Was often their last one.    [electronic beeping]    [missile roaring]    [missile roaring]  White House officials report last week's cyber attack that  resulted in the erroneous launch of a naval cruise missile  has been contained.  [electronic beep]  We have reason to believe the attack was of Chinese origin.  Good news, the majority of the nation's networks  are fully operational.  I hardly call that good news, Senator,  and you know full well it wasn't the Chinese.  We have your little pet project, Northern Lights, to blame.  If Northern Lights was responsible,  it's a moot point now.  The program's defunct.  The book has been officially closed on Northern Lights,  and all personnel have been permanently reassigned.  [dramatic music]    [gun clicks]    It was a job.  Nothing personal.  I had a few jobs like that myself.    In fact, a few years ago, I would've just killed you  without even a second thought.    But then I met some people.    Some good people.    And they taught me the value of life.  Those people,  they wouldn't want you to kill me.    You're right.    But they're all dead.    [gunshots]    (newswoman on TV) As the virus spread,  its capacity for destruction became more apparent.  Ice-nine made quick work of all safeguards put into place.  Hey, can I get a refill over here?  Stab wound didn't hurt your appetite.  Nice to see you too.  You know, you could've called and said you were alive.    I'm alive.  It's more than we can say for glasses and John.  You hear anything?    No news is no news.    - You back at work? - Yeah.  You should see the reports.  Next time I'm sitting out the cyber apocalypse.    What about you?  You sticking around?  I just came to collect my dog.  Your dog?    [dog whines]  Come on.  I'll see you when I see you.  Not if I see you first.    [gentle music]    (Root) If you can hear this,  you're alone.  The only thing left of me is the sound of my voice.  [light instrumental music]  I don't know if any of us made it.  Did we win? Did we lose?  I don't know.  But either way, it's over.  So let me tell you who we were.  Let me tell you who you are.  [electronic beeping]  Someone once asked me if I had learned anything from it all.    So let me tell you what I learned.  I learned everyone dies alone.    But if you meant something to someone    If you helped someone    Or loved someone    If even a single person remembers you    Then maybe you never really die.  [telephone rings]    [telephone rings]    And maybe  this isn't the end at all.  [mysterious music]    [electronic beeping]
1 Hello, friend.  "Hello, friend?" That's lame.  Maybe I should give you a name.  But that's a slippery slope. You're only in my head.  We have to remember that.  Shit.  It's actually happened. I'm talking to an imaginary person.  What I'm about to tell you is top secret.  A conspiracy bigger than all of us.  There's a powerful group of people out there that are secretly running the world.  I'm talking about the guys no one knows about.  The guys that are invisible.  The top one percent of the top one percent.  The guys that play God without permission.  And now I think they're following me.  This is about last night.  I should've gone to Angela's birthday party.  Instead, I went to  Hey, Ron.  There you are.  Happy New Year 2016 - New Year, New Color ;-)  You're Ron?  But  Your real name is Rohit D'Temeta.  You changed it to Ron when you bought your first  Ron's Coffee shop six years ago.  Now, you got 17 of 'em with eight more coming next quarter.  May I help you with something?  I like coming here, 'cause your Wi-Fi was fast.  I mean, you're one of the few spots that has a fiber connection with gigabit speed.  It's good.  I mean, it was so good, it scratched that part of my mind.  The part that  doesn't allow good to exist without condition.  So, I started intercepting all the traffic on your network.  That's when I noticed something strange.  That's when I decided to hack you.  - Hack - I know you run a website called Plato's Boys.  Pardon me?  You're using Tor networking to keep the servers anonymous.  You made it really hard for anyone to see it.  But I saw it.  The onion routing protocol, it's not as anonymous as you think it is.  Whoever's in control of the exit nodes is also in control of the traffic,  which makes me  the one in control.  - I must ask you to kindly leave, please. - I own everything.  All your emails. All your files.  All your pics.  Get out of here, right now, or I'll call the  Police?  I mean, you want them to find out about the hundred terabytes of child pornography  you serve to your 400,000 users?  Personally, man,  I was hoping it was just gonna be some BDSM stuff.  You realize how much simpler that would've been?  I did not hurt anyone.  I never did.  That's my personal life.  I understand what it's like  to be different.  I'm very different, too.  I mean, I dont jerk off to little kids, but  I don't know how to talk to people.  My dad was the only one I could talk to.  But he died.  I'm sorry to hear that.  How did he pass, may I ask?  Leukemia.  Yeah, he definitely got it from  radiation at the company he worked at, though I couldn't prove it.  Now, he's dead.  Company's fine, though.  Oh, hey  It's okay, Rohit.  You don't have to worry anymore.  I don't understand.  Are you blackmailing me?  So that's what this is about? Money?  That's all you care about, hmm?  No.  If I pay you now, you'll want more and more.  No matter how much I give.  You will inform the police anyway.  I won't pay you, sir.  Remember, you also broke the law.  Actually, you're right.  Partly.  See, I usually do this kind of thing from my computer,  but this time I wanted to do it AFK.  In person.  I'm trying to work on my social anxiety.  But there's always the threat of you fleeing after I call you out.  You know, you tell your sysadmin to take your servers down, wipe all the data.  So  I made sure to include the current time and location on my anonymous tip.  Wait, hold on. I'll give you the money. I'll pay you.  How much do you want? I'll pay you.  That's the part you were wrong about, Rohit.  I don't give a shit about money.  Now, I'm being followed.  The higher-ups don't like someone with my powers.  In three short minutes, I destroyed a man's business, life, existence.  - I deleted him. - Hey!  Hey, you!  Hey, kiddo.  What's happening?  Exciting time in the world right now.  Exciting time.  But I'm only a vigilante hacker by night.  By day, just a regular cyber-security engineer.  Employee number ER-280652.  Elliot?  In here.  - What's up? - Yo.  - I do. It's not about the - All Of the  I can Yeah, I can totally  I can totally handle it.  Look, they were hacked again last night.  That's my childhood friend, Angela.  She can be a bit high-strung sometimes.  But, trust me, she's one of the good ones.  What am I looking at? Is this the log file? This was a RUDY attack.  - This is awesome. - Gideon, will you please answer me?  Awesome? You think this is awesome?  This is killing us, Elliot.  Gideon, I'm not leaving - Angela!  Let's just see how this meeting goes today.  I mean, their Their networks are getting attacked every week.  Who knows if they'll still even be a client.  - They're coming in? - Yeah.  What did we say about the dress code?  All right, now, look over those logs and be ready,  this afternoon, in case they have any questions.  Okay?  Okay.  Did you start smoking again?  Did you not get my texts last night?  I sent you exactly 13 of them.  Yeah, sorry. I couldn't make it.  You promised me that you were gonna try this time.  Stop thinking about something else when I'm talking to you.  I hate when you do that.  Sorry.  I was thinking about work.  Maybe that's why Gideon loves you so much.  He thanks me all the time for bringing you in.  But, for some reason, I think you secretly hate it here.  She was right.  I like most of the people, but our business,  a cyber-security firm that protects corporations,  I can't think of anything I hate more.  No, I love it here.  I'm sorry.  I'm just in a bad mood.  I'm late on my last two student loan payments.  And I can't get Gideon to give me a raise.  - Hey. - Hi.  Yo, buddy.  - Missed you last night. Where were you? - Gotta go.  Big meeting today.  Did you find out what happened?  Yeah. He said he was working.  Ugh, come on. You gotta talk to him.  We're gonna be late for the staff meeting.  He can't stand me. And you know why.  Angela,  I can't have that kind of negativity in my life.  That's exactly what I'm talking about.  What are you thinking about?  Nothing.  You wanna know what I'm thinking about?  The first time you came to me.  I didn't exactly come to Krista.  I was forced here. But I do like her.  Hacking her was simple.  Her password? Dylan2791.  Favorite artist and the year in which she was born, backwards.  Though she's a psychologist, she's really bad at reading people.  But I'm good at reading people. My secret?  I look for the worst in them.  I know she went through a divorce four years ago.  I know she was devastated by it and has been dating losers on eHarmony ever since.  Her most recent foray? Michael Hansen.  I searched for him online, but nothing came up.  No LinkedIn, no Facebook. Nothing.  Something about him bugs me.  Scratching that part of my mind again.  But I'll hack him soon enough. I always do.  I know you're not yelling like before, which is good,  but I can tell you're still holding on to it.  And we need to work on your anger issues, Elliot.  You're angry at everyone.  - At society - F society.  I know you have a lot to be angry about,  but keeping it to yourself and staying quiet,  like you're doing, it's not going to help you.  There's pain underneath.  That's where our work needs to go.  What is it about society that disappoints you so much?  Oh, I don't know.  Is it that we collectively thought Steve Jobs was a great man,  even when we knew he made billions off the backs of children?  Or maybe it's that it feels like all our heroes are counterfeit.  The world itself's just one big hoax.  Spamming each other with our burning commentary of bullshit masquerading as insight.  Our social media faking as intimacy.  Or is it that we voted for this?  Not with our rigged elections, but with our things.  Our property. Our money.  I'm not saying anything new. We all know why we do this.  Not because Hunger Games books makes us happy.  But because we wanna be sedated.  Because it's painful not to pretend. Because we're cowards.  - F society. - Elliot.  Elliot, you're not saying anything.  What's wrong?  Nothing.  Don't be frustrated.  Why shouldn't I be?  You're different than most.  You at least try.  You at least understand.  Understand what?  What it's like to feel alone.  You understand the pain.  You wanna protect people from it.  You wanna protect me from it.  I respect that about you.  Why do you think I know what it's like to feel alone?  Shit. From her emails.  Elliot?  I don't know.  Let's talk about last night.  Did you go to Angela's birthday party?  Yeah. It was nice.  - Did you try to talk to anyone? - Sure.  I got a girl's number.  - You did? - She's cute.  She likes The Hunger Games.  You're hiding again, Elliot.  When you hide, your delusions come back.  It's a slippery slope.  Let's talk about the men in black you've been seeing.  Are they still there?  No, they're  I told you, they're gone.  The meds you gave me are working.  Yo, man.  Do you wanna, uh  You wanna do lunch today?  Uh, yeah.  - I got other - Plans, right.  That's what you said the last three times I asked you, uh  Look, bud, you and Angela have been close for a long time.  And that's even more reason why I want us to be on good terms.  I just I feel like things have been awkward between us.  Don't you?  I'm okay with it being awkward between us.  Um, yeah, I'm I'm not okay with that.  Um  Look, man, I love Angela and I want us to  To get along, for her sake.  I mean, that's, that's what I'm kinda That's what I'm here for.  I just, I  I don't normally do stuff like this.  Am I crazy not to like this guy?  Among some of his Facebook likes are  George W. Bush's decision points,  Revenge of the Fallen,  - and the music of Josh Groban  Must I really justify myself any further?  Working on that shit, you know?  His was the easiest to hack.  Password was 123456Seven.  I witnessed his first "I love you" with Angela over GChat.  Then I witnessed the first Of many infidelities with Stella B.  I've never done anything like this before  I've thought about telling Angela but she has shitty taste in men  and I'm not quite ready to see what comes after this just yet.  You like music. I like music.  Maroon 5?  Plus, I can manage Ollie easier than the others.  For now, anyway.  And that's all I mean.  I just want you to know that.  I like you, bro.  And I want you to like me, too.  I understand.  I'll try harder.  That's cool, man.  Hey, whenever you're ready, I'd love to just  chill.  Oh, forgot about your no touching thing.  Truth is, I shouldn't hate Ollie. He's not that bad a guy.  He's too dumb to be bad.  In fact, when I think about the really bad people  E Corp, the largest conglomerate in the world.  They're so big, they're literally everywhere.  A perfect monster of modern society.  The "E" might as well stand for "Evil."  electronics and all of life's necessities  In fact, after a thorough, intensive self-reprogramming,  that's all my mind hears, sees, or reads when they pop up in my world.  Together, we can change the world  - with E Corp. - Evil Corp.  Krista would have a shit fit if she knew I did that.  But that's what they are, a conglomerate of evil.  And now I have to help them.  There are six on-site engineers on your account.  - There he is. - Terry Colby, the CTO.  I know it looks a little complicated.  Even though he's the head technology guy  at one of the biggest companies in the world, he owns a BlackBerry.  So, this is it, right here.  It also looks like he doesn't see a terminal very often.  He's not a techie. He's a moron.  An arrogant moron.  The worst kind.  Oh, hi.  Tyrell Wellick, Senior Vice President, Technology.  Elliot.  Just a tech.  Don't be so humble.  You know, I started out exactly where you are, and  To be honest, you know, my heart is still there.  So I see you're running Gnome.  You know, I'm actually on KDE myself.  I know this desktop environment is supposed to be better, but  You know what they say,  old habits, they die hard.  An executive running Linux?  But, that - Yeah, I know what you're thinking.  I'm an executive.  I mean, why am I even running Linux?  Again, old habits.  It's gonna be fun working with you.  I should join the rest of the group.  Bonsoir, Elliot.  Sometimes I dream of saving the world.  Saving everyone from the invisible hand.  The one that brands us with an employee badge.  The one that forces us to work for them.  The one that controls us every day without us knowing it.  But I can't stop it.  I'm not that special.  I'm just anonymous.  I'm just alone.  If it weren't for Qwerty, I'd be completely empty.  I hate when I can't hold in my loneliness.  This crying's been happening too often. Every other week now.  What do normal people do when they get this sad?  They reach out to friends or family, I think.  That's not an option.  I do morphine.  The key to doing morphine without turning into a junkie  is to limit yourself to 30 milligrams a day.  Anything more just builds up your tolerance.  I check every pill I get for purity.  I have eight milligrams Suboxone, for maintenance,  in case I go through withdrawal.  Shit. I'm out again.  How much?  On the house.  No, Shayla.  Not doing that, okay?  This is just a regular drug deal, like it always is.  Fine.  Oh, yeah, so what are you up to tonight?  'Cause I tried to post something on your Facebook and couldn't find you.  I'm not on Facebook.  What? Why not?  'Cause I hate Facebook.  That's crazy.  Well, you wanna do these together, then?  Pure Molly.  Don't ever make decisions when you're on morphine.  Instagram check-in for Krista at Pierre Loti.  Okay, Michael Hansen. Time to find out who you really are.  Taxi!  Uh, hi. I just left my keys in one of your cabs.  56Y2.  Sure.  How 'bout you two? Huh?  You guys got any spare change?  Help me out? Homes are expensive, guys. Come on.  306, Hawthorne. Thank you. Thank you.  Come on, asshole. Piss already.  - I mean, come on. Come on!  - Will ya Will ya go?  - Hey! - Go! Go, will ya?  - Hey. - Come on.  Can I borrow your phone?  Mine's dead. I need to call my mom.  Thank you.  No answer. Thanks, anyway.  Angela, is everything okay?  I need you to come to Allsafe.  You're there? It's 3:00 in the morning.  They attacked Evil Corp 's servers again.  But it's bad this time. It's a DDoS attack.  Did you call Lloyd? He's on call.  Yeah, he's here.  Is he talking to their tech department?  He's online with them, but so far, nothing.  I don't think that Lloyd can handle this.  Look, Gideon just put me on this account.  I can't screw up in my first week. I need you.  Please?  I'll be right there.  Finally.  Calm down. It's only been an hour.  Yeah, well an hour in Evil Corp's time  is like $13,000,000 in revenue, approximately.  Actually, I calculated that.  That's exactly how much they lost.  Don't worry, I got you.  Lloyd, what's up?  Lloyd?  Elliot. This is bad.  Worst DDoS attack I've ever seen.  Did you reconfigure the DNS?  Yes.  Stop the services. I already stopped the services.  I tried to reboot the servers, but they're not coming back up.  Dude, someone is straight up finger-blasting our entire network right now.  They just started reporting on the outage.  Shit. This is worse than I thought. They're in the network.  What's the status update?  You see, I thought we set up security protocols so that this doesn't happen.  - Where's the attack coming from? - Everywhere, obviously.  USA, Finland, Thailand, Kuwait  Start restarting the services, load sharing, redirect the traffic.  And call Prolexic for help.  Wait. What?  I don't think this is just a DDoS attack.  I think they got a rootkit sitting inside the servers.  What's a rootkit?  It's like a crazy serial rapist with a very big dick!  Jesus, Lloyd!  Sorry, it's a malicious code that completely takes over their system.  It could delete system files, install programs,  - viruses, worms - How do we stop it?  That's the thing, it's fundamentally invisible.  You can't stop it. All of their servers are timing out.  None of them are coming back up.  Yeah. This means every time we restart a server  the virus replicates itself during boot-up, then crashes the host.  How are we supposed to bring up the network  if we can't restart the servers?  We can't.  Which is what they wanted.  By defending ourselves, we ended up spreading the virus everywhere.  Only thing we can do is We gotta take the whole system offline.  Wipe the infected servers clean, then bring them back up.  - You're coming with me. - Yeah.  Lloyd?  Tell everybody to start taking everything offline.  - On it. - Uh, the server farm in Dulles.  We're gonna need the jet.  They're booting the network back up.  Now, you're downloading the logs, right?  - Because we need - Stop. Tell 'em to stop.  - What? - Don't start the boot sequence.  You guys missed one. There's an infected server up and running.  What's the ETA before it hits this server?  The backup server up and running?  It's ready, but it's not configured for auto switch.  We need to redirect the traffic. We need to switch DNS.  You got this. You got this. You got this.  No, this is impossible. You got this. You got this.  It's almost at the bad server.  We still up?  We're okay.  Yeah.  Hey, I'm gonna take a look at the infected server, okay?  Give me a minute. Yeah.  Uh, I'll meet you at the elevators.  They must've left a mark or something.  Every hacker loves attention.  They don't just do DDoS attacks for no reason.  This is it.  "fsociety."  Is that supposed to be a joke?  This was way too easy. They didn't hide it well at all.  This note is for me.  They're telling me to leave it here.  But why?  Doesn't matter.  Time to shut them down.  Why can't I delete it?  I don't want to delete it. I want it to stay.  What's wrong with me?  I'll reconfigure the access to the root directory so only I can use it.  No one will know.  For you, sir.  Did you know that I'm gay?  Uh  No.  Hmm.  Consider this me coming out to you, then.  Okay?  It's hard, 'cause I don't like to talk about my sex life,  but my partner, he gets very paranoid, he  Thinks I'm ashamed of  He wants me to be more public about it.  So Anyway.  I'm gay.  - Thanks. - Yeah.  Hey, man, don't worry about it.  Hackers have a short attention span.  They'll get bored, harass someone else.  Evil Corp is thinking about leaving us.  And I don't know if I can blame 'em.  They could've called their other security teams. Mmm.  They called you.  Somebody over there likes us.  But Terry Colby, he's getting the pressure.  And he calls the shots.  Evil Corp is 80% of our business.  If we lose them, that's gonna be it for us.  It's gonna be it  for me.  I feel like I can talk to you.  I mean, more than the others, anyway.  I'm sure, in a weird way,  you'll be happy if we went under.  Aw, come on.  I know you hate wearing those stupid shirts.  Gideon,  I promise I'll find them.  Evil Corp servers should be back up soon enough.  I'll take a look at the .dat file.  I'll ask my IRC contacts about fsociety when I get home.  I've never seen their name on the boards, though.  They gotta be new. But they're good.  Rough night?  I'm getting off here.  I think you should come with me.  But only if you didn't delete it.  If you deleted it, we got nothing to talk about.  Are you talking to me?  Stand clear of the closing doors, please.  Who are you?  We gotta wait for the Q.  Then what?  Then we're going to Brooklyn.  Out by Coney Island.  Why?  What's there?  Obviously, you're gonna ask a lot of questions.  It's weird what you're doing right now. I get it.  But I can't tell you anything until we get there.  You can't smoke in here.  You've been following me.  Why?  What do you want from me?  My dad was a petty thief.  Never could hold down a job. So he just robbed.  Convenience stores, shops. Small-time stuff.  One time, he sat me down. He told me something I never forgot.  He said, "Everyone steals.  "That's how it works.  "You think people out there are getting exactly what they deserve? No.  "They're getting paid over or under,  "but someone in the chain always gets bamboozled.  "I steal, son.  "But I don't get caught.  "That's my contract with society.  "Now, if you can catch me stealing, then I'll go to jail.  "But if you can't  "then I've earned the money."  I respected that man.  I thought that shit was cool, as a little kid.  A few years after that, they finally caught him.  Sent him to jail.  He dies five years later. My respect goes with him.  I thought he was free doing what he did, but he wasn't.  He was in prison.  Just like you are now, Elliot.  But I'm gonna break you out.  Why would you guys actually meet IRL?  You remember that hacker group, O-Megz?  They got outed by their own leader to the FBI and six hackers went to prison for it.  You know how they got him?  They went on the dude's computer.  Tracked them all down through emails,  VPN sessions, chat messages, texts.  One guy, and the whole thing comes down.  That's what's called Central point of failure.  Right.  Because they refused to meet in person,  they compromised each other every time they sent so much as a smiley face.  The rule here is,  it's done here and only here.  It ends when you walk out that door and begins when you walk in.  Our encryption, is the real world.  How do you talk to each other, then?  We don't.  We come and go. Work on the project when we can.  How do you trust them?  I give 'em an exercise.  If they pass, they join us.  If they fail DDoS attack last night.  You were testing me.  You said there was a project.  What's the project?  That'll come later.  I just wanted you to see the place.  There's not much you can do without a CPU.  I'm crazy.  I have to be crazy, because that didn't just happen, right?  This is a delusion. Is this a delusion?  Shit, I'm a schizo.  Have I really lost it this time? No. No.  Last night happened. It was real.  Angela called me. I was at Allsafe.  Evil Corp servers were compromised.  Those are facts, not delusions.  I know.  I know, I know, I realize I'm saying all of this to an imaginary person.  But I created you.  I didn't create this.  Oh.  Thank God, you're here. I was just about to go wait in the Starbucks.  You live in a bad neighborhood. Do you know that?  I do know that.  Do you wanna get high and watch your favorite movie?  You saved our asses last night.  I thought Gideon was definitely gonna fire me.  Where've you been?  I thought you'd be sleeping.  I Yeah, I fell asleep on the train.  That sounds like such a lie.  But, whatever.  I don't wanna get into that right now.  So, you wanna do this?  I miss Qwerty.  I hope she still loves me.  Okay  Shit.  She wasn't supposed to be here.  Okay? Give me a minute and I'll get rid of her.  It's okay. Um  This is great.  Elliot, I'm happy for you. No, it's not like that.  Well, maybe it should be.  You know, it's good that you're  dating.  Um Well, see you on Monday.  We can do movie night next time.  - I promise. Okay? - Yeah.  Have fun.  Mmm  Elliot?  Oh, shit. Is it Wednesday?  Shayla. I have to move my car.  Shayla,  leave.  Now!  No mention of Mr. Robot anywhere.  No mention of fsociety.  Not on any of the hacker boards.  Not on IRC, forums, blogs- No one's heard of them.  Property was owned by Fun Society Amusement LLC for 13 years.  Owner was shot and killed a year and a half ago. No owner since.  And the ownership history before that's sparse to non-existent.  This guy's good.  Very good.  Doesn't matter.  Their arcade network's IP is in the .dat file.  That'll be enough to turn them in.  What's your ask, Mr. Robot?  Hey, man.  Where's your boss?  Okay, cut the bullshit.  When are you gonna give us access to the root directory?  What? Dude, come on.  I wrote that rootkit.  I still have to put Colby's IP in the .dat file.  Dickhead.  Elliot! Good news.  Scored the last bag of Twinkies from Gristedes.  You want one?  She just called me a dickhead.  Yeah, that's Darlene.  Hey, you like Ferris wheels?  Ah, it's beautiful.  It gets better the higher up you go, you know.  I love it up here.  You like it?  I'm here to tell you I'm turning you in.  I'm giving them all the information  Let me tell you why you're really here.  You're here because you sense something wrong with the world.  Something you can't explain.  But, you know it controls you and everyone you care about  What are you talking about?  Money.  Money hasn't been real since we got off the gold standard.  It's become virtual.  Software, the operating system of our world.  And, Elliot, we are on the verge  of taking down this virtual reality.  Think about it.  What if you could take down one conglomerate?  A conglomerate so deeply entrenched  in the world's economy  that "too big to fail" doesn't even come close to describing it?  You wanna create another financial meltdown like the one we just had,  but way worse.  Yeah, why would I want that?  Everyone would lose their money.  What if I told you that this conglomerate  just so happens to own 70% of the global consumer credit industry, huh?  If we hit their data center just right  we could systematically format all the servers, including backup.  That would erase All the debt we owe them.  Every record of every credit card, loan, and mortgage would be wiped clean.  It'd be impossible to reinforce outdated paper records.  It'd all be gone.  The single, biggest incident  of wealth redistribution  in history.  Evil Corp. The conglomerate.  That's why you picked me.  'Cause I work at Allsafe. Tomorrow  Allsafe is gonna get a visit from the FBI  and the US Cyber Command.  You  are gonna modify the .dat file,  and put Colby's terminal IP address in there.  Terry Colby.  You're gonna frame him? No one's gonna believe that.  I met him. He's a moron.  So are the FBI.  Even if they don't believe he did it,  they'll believe he gave someone access to it.  And he'll just go to jail. What good'll that do?  You don't take down a conglomerate by shooting them in the heart.  That's the thing about conglomerates,  they don't have hearts.  You take 'em down limb by limb.  And as they unravel,  their illusion of control unravels.  Who are you?  That'll come later. Right now  You have a lot to think about.  You have to change this .dat file, okay?  But put Colby's IP in there.  You do that,  you'll have set in motion the largest revolution the world will ever see.  If you go away  On this summer day  Then you might as well take the sun away  All the birds that flew in a summer sky  When our love was new and our hearts were high  When the day was young  And the night was long  And the moon stood still for the night bird's song  If you go away  If you go away  If you go away  But if you stay  Then I'll make you a day  Like no day's been  Or will be again  We'll sail on the sun  We'll ride on the rain  We'll talk to the trees  That worship the wind  And if you go, I'll understand  Leave me just enough love to fill up my hand  If you go away  If you go away  If you go away  If you go away  As I know you must  There'll be nothing left in the world to trust  Just an empty room full of empty space  Like the empty look I see on your face  Can I tell you now as you turn to go  I'll be dying slowly till your next hello  If you go away  If you go away  If you go away  So?  What do we got?  So, if you'll take a look at the first page of your agenda  You're the one who stopped the hack.  You know, uh, the gals in analysis said this was a tough one.  All things being equal, it should've shut us down for days, so  You did good.  Okay.  We should start with our account executive, Angela.  Okay, we first noticed the breach at 2:07 a.m. Eastern Standard on Friday night.  You mean Saturday?  Sorry, yes.  Technically, Saturday morning.  Yeah. Okay, Angela. That's what we're here for.  The technicals.  Right.  Yes.  Anyway, he arrived at the office at 2:35, and I  Okay, wait, wait, wait. So that's, uh, almost a half hour after the initial breach.  Why didn't anyone pipe in from their laptops?  It's not It wouldn't have been secure.  If someone terminaled in on this.  It was  the smarter move to have someone come in so they can log in on a secure line.  Exactly. Then, Lloyd was able to  Just Just, actually, uh Just one second.  You know, I, uh I always loved this view.  And now that that's taken care of,  let's pick it up where we left off.  What happened to Angela? She knows more about what happened.  She's not gonna work out for us.  Not on this level. We need to stick to the more tech savvy here.  Now, let's get to the heart of this thing,  because I can't sit here and look through a packet for the next 20 minutes.  All right? Just who did this?  Is it that hard?  Who did this?  I found the configuration file of the rootkit with a pattern of IP addresses.  Once you decrypt it, you'll know where the hack came from.  Nineteen days.  No news. No arrest. No revolution.  No FBI, Colby, Evil Corp.  No Mr. Robot.  No fsociety.  I need to take my mind off things.  Hello?  Hi, this is Sam from Bank of E-Security Fraud Department.  Unfortunately, I have to inform you that your account's been compromised.  What? What happened?  First, before I can answer any questions,  I need to verify some information.  Are you still at 306 Hawthorne Avenue?  Yes, apartment 2C.  Great. And your security question, "Favorite baseball team"?  Um, Yankees. I don't remember this being a security  And, lastly, your pet's name?  Um, Flipper.  Uh, who am I speaking to?  Can I get your name and num  With those details, plus a dictionary brute force attack,  it'll take my program maybe two minutes to crack his password.  What I wouldn't give to be normal.  To live in that bubble.  The reality of the naive.  That's how I justify this.  To keep their optimism intact.  To protect them.  How? He's too old to have a complicated password.  It had to have been a combination of these things.  I'm missing something. I'm missing something.  I'm missing something.  Michael Hansen isn't his real name.  Come on. Get over here.  Lenny Shannon? Michael Hansen?  Which one you playin' tonight?  You're gonna stop seeing Krista. What the  You're gonna break up with her.  You're never gonna see her again.  You're the guy that used my phone.  You cheated on your current wife with seven different women.  I got digital proof of all of it.  Ashley Madison, online escorts, fake Facebook pages.  I own it all.  And if you don't stop seeing her  Your wife will know everything.  Along with the police.  - The police? - Yeah, one of the escorts was 15.  That 15 part I made up,  but he did have a proclivity for young escorts that helped the lie.  But I'm not gonna do any of that.  As long as you break up with Krista.  Tonight.  Done.  You're also gonna tell her the truth.  You're married, cheat on your wife, you hire hookers.  And you never had any intention of being serious with her.  Why?  That would destroy her.  She thinks that  we're in love.  Exactly.  Krista needs to avoid dickheads like you in the future.  Her radar needs fixing.  I'll know if you skip any detail.  So don't.  And one more thing.  I'm gonna need something from you.  Come on.  Hmm.  I like you, Flipper.  You're cool.  I never wanna be right about my hacks,  but people always find a way to disappoint.  Michael Hansen now gets filed away among the others.  Forever buried in my digital cemetery.  The look of disillusionment.  He told her. She cried all night.  Now comes the sadness.  I don't like seeing her sad.  You okay?  Sorry.  Sorry.  Go on.  I think Angela blames me for what happened at the Evil Corp meeting.  What do I do? I need to talk to her.  Well, I think you just answered your own question.  Talk to her.  She won't respond to any of my texts or emails.  Then, go to her in person.  Tell her you need to talk.  Communication is key, Elliot.  Real human interaction.  That's what's important for you right now.  Do you  You think we can talk?  What?  You won't talk to me.  You haven't talked to me since the meeting.  I don't wanna talk to you, because I feel embarrassed.  Every time I think about what happened.  Okay?  It's fine. I'll get over it.  It's been three weeks. I have to get back to work.  You're just gonna ignore me? You didn't have to stick up for me in there.  I know that you were just trying to help, but just  Don't do it again!  Even if I'm losing, let me lose.  Okay?  Don't look confused!  Just say  "Okay."  Okay.  Elliot  FBI agents claim that Colby either used hacking groups,  or worked in conjunction with them  to pressure Evil Corp during his contract negotiations.  After a long and exhaustive investigation,  sources close to the FBI  have confirmed the hacks were, in part, tied to Colby's terminal.  It's happening.  It's happening. It's happening. It's happening.  It's happening. It's happening.  Sir, step inside the car.  Sir.  Step inside the vehicle now.  Go ahead.  Sir, go on in.  Sir, go on in.  Bonsoir, Elliot.  Please tell me you're seeing this, too.  Happy New Year 2016 - New Year, New Color ;-)
What I'm about to tell you is top secret.  Oh, hi. Tyrell Wellick.  You wanna do these together then?  - Pure molly. - No, Shayla.  I need you to come to Allsafe.  Shit, they're in the network.  This is it. fsociety.  They're telling me to leave it here.  Who are you?  I think you should come with me.  Yeah, that's Darlene.  You are gonna modify the DAT file.  Put Colby's IP in there.  You do that, you'll have set in motion  the largest revolution the world will ever see.    Sources have confirmed  the hacks were in part tied to Colby's terminal.  Sir, step inside the car.  Bonsoir, Elliot.  "Give a man a gun and he can rob a bank,  but give a man a bank, and he can rob the world."  It's a bit of a silly expression, actually.  A little reductive, but still  I like it,  for the same reason most people hate it,  because to me it means that power belongs  to the people that take it.  Nothing to do with their hard work, strong ambitions,  or rightful qualifications, no.  The actual will to take is often the only thing that's necessary.  I'm sorry to bring you in like this.  Technically what we're doing might be considered illegal,  which is why I'm surrounded  by eleven of our most annoying lawyers.  Elliot Alderson  I want to offer you  a position here at Evil Corp.  I want you to head our cybersecurity division.  Except I can't officially offer you anything  since we have this non-compete with your employer, Allsafe.  But if you do this of your own accord  when you do this  you'll be a multi-millionaire within the next five years.  What do you say?  Can I  Can I think about it?  Gentlemen, I need the room.  Yes, thank you. Yes, yes.  You know,  Evil Corp has just named me interim CTO.  It won't be long until it's official.  I will be the youngest executive this company has ever seen.  I should track down these hackers out there  just to thank them.  In a way, it's kind of, um  What's the word in English?  Serendipitous? Right?  You know, by the end of the quarter,  we're going to revamp our entire network  and consolidate our security protocols.  We're going to handle everything internally,  which means all of our vendors, including Allsafe,  will be cut loose.  And it's no secret that once Allsafe loses us as a client,  they'll be fini.  And when that happens,  I want you to be where you belong:  here with me.  This is an important choice you're making, Elliot.  I just wanted you to know all the facts  before you made your final decision.  I think I'm happy where I am.  Well, I thought I'd ask.  Call this number if you need to get in touch with Mr. Wellick.  You can call me Mr. X.  Come on, you've never seen JFK?  Oliver Stone movie?  Sir, I gotta be honest. That's embarrassing.  Do yourself a favor and watch it.  And pay, for Christ's sake.  Anyway, you can call me Mr. Sutherland for now.  Don't hesitate to reach me when you're ready.  We're always close by.  I'm gonna set a date right now  - No, we're not. - For later.  I gotta go, thank you very much.  - You gonna have me up? - No.  - Gonna have me up? - No, stop.  - I'm coming up. - No, you're not coming up.  Another time. Okay, I gotta go.  Come on.  - Everything all right? - Yeah, he's just a creeper.  I hate it when your employers can't take a hint.  Hey, is your radiator messed up?  Because it's like 3,000 degrees in my apartment.  Hey, are you okay? You seem off.  While we're here, you mind if I reup?  A little early to reup, don't you think?  I'm deviating from the schedule a little.  Whoa, never thought I'd see the day, Mr. Stricty Pants,  but okie dokie.  Oh, yeah. Shit, I'm out of the other ones.  No, just the morphine. It's good.  Uh, no, you made me promise never to give you these  unless I had your Subs.  - Shayla. - No, Elliot.  Promises matter, okay?  I take this shit to heart.  Oh, my God.  Fine, but you have to promise me you won't do a lot  until I get your withdrawal meds, okay?  I'll go see Fernando later or something.  No, you have to say it.  I promise.  Hey, man.  What, you think I forgot about you?  Trust me, I need you now more than ever.  We gotta get to work.  Hacking Tyrell Wellick, you'd think it'd be tricky,  but it wasn't Evil Corp's corporate mail servers,  they haven't patched anything since Shellshock.  He doesn't even use two-step verification.  His password was just his wife's maiden name  and Sweden's independence date, 6-6.  One six away from the obvious, but still,  this is bad noob practice.  These emails  His life it's nice, happy, perfect.  This doesn't make sense.  Did he know I was going to hack him?  Did he let me?  I'm gonna need to wipe everything.  I know, I know, taking more than I should.  I'm breaking my rule, but come on, it's an off week.  Come on.  Yo. My man, you gotta  You gotta deuce it out over here, all right?  Yo, you gotta do your business up in here, all right?  Hey  You got this. You got this.  Terry Colby, the chief technology officer of  Terry Colby's arrest is on everyone's mind.  Screen. Might as well be the same thing nowadays.  How do I go back to work after this?  How can I focus on anything?  And when's Mr. Robot going to contact me again?  What's he waiting for?  Did I just destroy a man's life for no reason?  I'm gonna talk to HR about a salary bump for you.  - Oh, please. - No, no.  Take the raise.  It's not gonna be much, but it's the best I can do right now.  Elliot  You saved the company.  Now  Why didn't you tell me about the DAT file?  You could've come in here at any time before the meeting  to say you found something, but you didn't.  I gotta be honest. I found that kind of curious.  Yeah, I didn't know what I had.  Could've easily been a junk file.  C'mon  You're never sure about anything  unless there's something to be sure about.  Maybe you don't know me that well.  Regardless,  I still need you to stay on it, now more than ever.  I mean, who knows what  these fsociety hackers are going to do next.  What did he just say?  - What did you just say? - The ones working with Colby.  Who knows how deep these data dumps are going to get,  and Evil Corp is  What're you talking about?  There's a twist.  You're usually the one a step ahead of me.  They hit the mother lode during the breach.  Potentially terabytes worth of emails and files.  They're threatening to dump everything  unless the FBI frees Colby.  They released the video this morning.  Hello, Evil Corp. We are fsociety.  Over the years, we have been watching you.  Your financial abuse of the poor;  your corruption of governments;  your cover-ups of the murder of innocent, ordinary citizens,  all for the sake of a profit.  This is why we at fsociety have decided you must die.  We are malicious and hostile. We do not compromise.  We are relentless.  We will not stop until every tentacle  of your evil monstrosity is sliced off at the nerve.  But we are also not without mercy.  Our latest hack was our last warning.  Meet our demands, and we will consider not destroying you.  First, release our leader Terry Colby  from your illegitimate prison immediately.  Second, release all the people of the world  from your even more illegitimate prisons of debt.  Third, dissolve your corporation  and donate all your assets to charities around the world.  This proposal is non-negotiable.  The people are realizing they don't have freedom of choice  so long as you exist.  The people are waking up,  no longer accepting your economic slavery.  Meet these demands, or we will kill you.  Consider yourself warned.  Play it again.  Yo, yo, yo, yo, my album just dropped.  Yo, please buy my CD. Only cost you 20 likes.  Yo, it'll give you the feels, y'all, I swear.  The CD's free. All's I ask is you Tweet.  Help my social media outreach.  You know, be like, "I want to set up this meeting.  It's like a very, like a " Oh, Elliot!  Hey, congrats, man.  Allsafe is all over the internet today because of you.  Dude, we should celebrate. We have this Groupon  for four at Morton's on Thursday.  This other couple we were going with totally bailed.  Why don't you come with?  Their steaks are badass. It's $29.95  I'm not sure that Elliot would like that.  Yeah, okay.  Yeah? Okay. Awesome, man.  And, hey, why don't we make it a double date?  I heard that you had a girlfriend.  Ollie, you weren't supposed to say anything.  Babe, it's cool. Elliot's okay with it.  Yeah, okay, sure. I have to go.  Um, my neighbor's complaining about the dog barking again.  - Since when does he have a dog? - Yo, yo, yo, yo, yo.  You look like a beautiful couple.  Yo, my album just dropped,  You like rap, hip-hop?  Yo, this shit is deep, lyrical, poetic.  Yo, your girl will like this, my man, I swear.  Come on, bro, you've been outside our building  for two weeks now.  All right, you know, I'll take it,  if you leave us alone.  Thank you, thank you, man, thank you.  And I'll tweet, but only if I like it, all right?  I only have 48 followers, but it's growing.  - No doubt, no doubt. - Some tastemakers in there so  I feel you, I feel you.  - Yeah. - All right.  Yo, I appreciate it, man, really.  - You guys have a good day. - Yeah, you too.  Thank you so much. Check track two out.  - Track two. - All right, man.  This was never part of the plan.  Data dumps? Releasing Terry Colby?  None of this makes sense.  Need to cut off all ties with fsociety.  Need to disconnect.  We need to call in sick and lie low for a  Dude! Jesus Christ! I am naked, asshole!  Don't stare at me!  Why the hell are you in my shower?  Well, I was waiting for you.  You were supposed to come last night.  - Did you forget? - Come? Where?  It's fine, everyone's coming later.  I'm stealing your clothes.  My dress has cum stains on it.  Jesus, I am just messing with you.  My stuff is just in the wash.  I'm gonna borrow this for the time being.  Oh, by the way,  your dog shat on your bed.  You gotta walk that thing.  Hey, please take Flipper for a while.  She probably needs a walk or something.  She keeps shitting everywhere.  Of course she needs a walk, Elliot.  She's a friggin' dog.  Yo, I want to stop and get some froyo before we go.  Uh, I'll be back later.  - I owe you. - Yeah, big time.  How do you know where I live?  Why wouldn't I know where you live?  I don't know. I don't know where you live.  Well,  I don't live anywhere at the present.  The douche I was dating proposed to me, can you believe?  I mean, what an asshole.  Anyways, we got into this huge fight, and  What the hell am I doing?  This chick is out of her mind batshit crazy.  I gotta go back, tell Gideon everything.  He'll understand, right?  He'll know what to do.  It's whatevs. He'll take me back.  He's just gotta get over this whole  "love is forever" bullshit.  I'll do my disappearing act for a minute,  and then he'll come to his senses.  Stand clear of the closing door.  You know, it's our thing.  Quick!  Can she see them, too?  What?  I like to stay on my toes.  Speaking of, that's, like, one of the most annoying things  But what if Tyrell finds out? What will he do?  Shit, there's basically no scenario in which  I'm not getting killed or going to jail.  Because I wanted a turtle, and he was like, "No"  I might need to crash with you for a couple of nights.  That's cool, right?  Seriously?  Fine! I'll crash at Mobley's.  Don't love dogs anyway.  Especially ones that shit in your bed.  I mean, how do you live like that, honestly?  How do you go to sleep when you know that there's  For all we know,  I could be walking into a trap right now.  We could be dead the second I walk through that door.  Come on, kid. We got big things in store.  Big things.  Man of the hour. Take a curtsy.  Goddamn ducks.  Hey, hey, man!  What's oh. Shit, sorry, sorry, dude.  Um, okay.  Anyway, just, awesome work, man.  Really awesome.  Right on, man. Right on.  - Real cool. - Great.  So now that we're all done going down on each other,  can we please hear the plan?  Where are we at with Steel Mountain?  If I'm not mistaken,  these lines aren't 100% safe yet,  and we still haven't made the Colby project disappear.  Seriously?  It's been weeks. Any links or traces  would have been owned by now.  The lines are clean, Boss, I swear.  - Thank you. - I mean, um  if it makes you feel better, Romero and I can check  Great! Make me feel great.  I'm gonna hang back over here, collect my thoughts.  Ohh!  What's her deal?  Ah, she's a complicated woman.  Most malware coders are. Am I right?  She showed up at my apartment.  Why does she know where I live?  Let's not focus on her. That'll be like  entering a bad K-hole you'll never wake up from.  Instead, I need you to focus on the next phase of our project.  Comet, the natural gas plant up around Albany?  We're gonna blow it up.  Why would you blow  Comet plant's right next to Steel Mountain.  Which, as you know,  is the off-site and data storage facility  for every corporation in the S&P,  including everyone's favorite  - Evil Corp. - Bingo!  You're gonna destroy their tape backups.  They're gonna be looking out for something like that.  They've been on high alert ever since the hack.  From what I heard, they've caught their hacker.  - Haven't they? - No, they haven't.  - Tyrell Wellick knows. - What they want him to know!  He's a corporate robot just like the rest of them.  Besides, the entire company is gonna be reeling  from all the data dumps we've got in store for them  and man, do we have some goodies.  Some good old-fashioned executive racism,  sexism, fascism.  Trust me, we are gonna "ism" so much all over them  they won't be able to see straight.  And asking for Colby's release as ransom was genius.  That'll only make his spotlight bigger,  keeping it off us.  That neat little ditty was Trenton's idea.  She may look innocent, but I'd be careful.  She's got some Allah Akbar in her.  And while all that's going on,  you will use your Allsafe security clearance  to hack the Comet PLC, increase the pressure,  causing a gas pipeline explosion  making Steel Mountain go kablooey  along with Evil Corp's soul.  They know about all this?  You're the first.  Workers?  Anyone living around the plant  They all die?  We'll give them a head start.  Sound some alarms. They'll be fine.  You're blowing up a gas pipeline.  The world is a dangerous place, Elliot,  not because of those who do evil,  but because of those who look on and do nothing.  This is war.  People will die. C'est la mort.  And once we blow up the pipeline,  Darlene's worm will kick into high gear  at the U.S. data center  which you helped to us install, thank you very much.  The redundant backups at their eastern data center in China  the Dark Army is covering us on that.  Dark Army? Why, man?  They got no code. They hack for anyone:  terrorists, North Korea, Iran, Russia  Which means they hate U.S. capitalism  just as much as anyone.  Last but not least.  Steel Mountain.  The hacker's dilemma. What to do  when a bunch of data you want to destroy  is completely off the grid?  I'm not killing anyone.  Tell me one thing, Elliot.  Are you a one or a zero?  That's the question you have to ask yourself.  Are you a yes or a no?  Are you going to act or not?  Yo you've been staring at a computer screen  way too long, homie.  Life's not that binary.  Isn't it?  Sure, there are grays  but when you come right down to it, at its core,  beneath every choice, there's either a one or a zero.  You either do something or you don't.  You walk out that door, you've decided to do nothing,  to say no, which means you do not come back.  You leave, you are no longer a part of this.  You become a zero.  If you stay,  if you want to change the world,  you become a yes.  You become a one.  So, I'll ask you again:  are you a one or a zero?  An innocent man is in prison because of what I did.  Come on, let's not kid ourselves!  This has nothing to do with Colby.  This isn't even about my revolution.  This is more than that for you.  This is about how those bastards slowly killed your father  and how you wished he'd done something about it.  But he didn't. Because he was a zero,  just like you're being right now.  Fuck you.  Disappearing again?  I'm not killing anyone. Leave me out of this.  You don't get to disappear from this.  We can do it with or without you,  but you're a part of it either way!  Yeah, even your stupid hoodie can't protect you, bitch!  This was a mistake.  I've gotta turn them in. Should I turn them in?  Will I get into trouble? Shit, she's right.  I'm culpable now. No, we're culpable.  You're in this with me, so start thinking of solutions now.  Shayla?  Yo, Shayla.  Yo, bro.  Can I help you with something?  I, uh just need to talk to Shayla.  Oh, your girl.  She in the tub.  Shayla.  Yo, she'll be out in a minute.  Can sit and wait if you want.  I think we should check on her, make sure she's all right.  You a funny dude. I like you.  Don't be rude.  Sit down and chill.  No, that's right.  You only do this.  Only nigga I know that take withdrawal meds while he using.  That's smart.  Probably even convinced yourself you ain't an addict.  Oh, shit.  Forgot to introduce myself. I'm Fernan  Fernando Vera, Shayla's supplier.  One of the worst human beings I've ever hacked.  His password? "eatadick6969."  Aside from the massive amounts of money  he spends on porn and webcams,  he does all his drug transactions  through emails, IMs, Twitter.  The fact that the cops haven't caught him yet is beyond me.  If they had half a brain cell,  they'd be able to crack his gang's simplistic code,  if it can even be called that.  After only a couple of hours of timing his tweets  with related news articles,  I figured out that "biscuit" and "clickety"  clearly referenced guns.  "Food," "sea shells" or "gas" for bullets.  And the ultimate: "rock to sleep early."  I haven't made the direct connection to a hit yet,  but the math of guns plus bullets  usually adds up to one thing.  I've thought about turning him in,  but he's Shayla's only supplier.  I take him down, I lose my drugs,  and with everything going on right now, I can't have that.  You get that, though?  Anyway, bro,  I ain't nothing to worry about.  Just making a drop for you.  What's your name, anyway?  Elliot.  What it mean?  What, you ain't never Googled it?  Man, you gotta do that.  The meaning of a person's name is important, bro.  Yo, she good! She good.  Trust me.  Took care of that shit myself.  You remind me of me when I was younger,  depressed and sullen.  Matter of fact, tried to kill myself, a couple of times.  Never could get that shit right.  Biology wasn't my strong suit.  I hated myself, man. Still do.  Thought that shit was a weakness for a long time.  Then I realized that shit was my power.  People walk around, act like they know what hate means.  Nah, no one does, until you hate yourself.  I mean  truly hate yourself.  That's power.  You ain't scared of me, are you?  That's good.  Means I didn't waste my time making friends with you.  You don't really need these, do you?  Man of your courage can last through a little withdrawal.  Ya know, you the only reason why I met Shayla.  I'm the only nigga in town carrying everything,  including your precious Suboxone.  So, in a weird way, I should be thanking you.  You brought her to me.  Your star orbiting with mine, gravitationally,  brought me the love of my life, Elliot.  I mean, this, us?  Being here?  This has  beautiful meaning.  But make no mistake, that girl in there  is mine.  I don't know what I'd do without her.  Now, I don't know what kind of arrangement  you had with her before, but now that we friends  I trust you respect this boundary.  Feel me?  A dude earlier today gave me that same look.  Only thing I gotta say is,  there's a smart time to be scared, bro  And a stupid time.  Shayla?  The lock pick.  Every hacker's favorite sport.  The perfect system to crack,  mostly because unlike virtual systems,  when you break it, you can feel it.  You can see it. You can hear it.  Shayla.  Hey.  Shayla.  Wake up.  Mm.  What happened?  You okay?  Why was that asshole here?  Why am I in the tub?  I don't know, um I told him I needed your pills.  He came over. We smoked a little.  You remember having sex with him?  What? No.  But he definitely does.  Okay, let's go.  - Get your purse, make sure - Stop.  I'm not going anywhere, okay?  What do you mean?  Oh, he's just gonna get away with it?  You can't go back to him. Hey, I don't need the pills.  - Just find someone else. - I can't.  He gives me a really good deal on the split.  I make good money.  There it is again,  the invisible hand at work, controlling us,  even if it pushes us past our threshold of pain.  It's not gonna stop.  What if he does it again?  Promise me you won't do anything?  I'm serious, Elliot.  There's nothing to be done here.  It's not like I have a choice.  Hey  Would you mind sleeping here tonight?  Choices.  Maybe Mr. Robot's right.  That's what this is all about, the yesses and nos of life.  But do we decide them or do they decide us?  Fernando Vera. I get rid of him,  I get rid of my drug dealer's supplier.  I get rid of the morphine.  And the pain I've been holding in comes rushing out.  Sure, I can try to find another dealer,  but like Vera said, no one on the streets deals Suboxone.  I could go back to digitally counterfeiting scripts,  but pharmas spend a lot of dough protecting their wares.  Most places only take paper scripts.  Continuously getting legit refills isn't realistic,  and neither is being a junkie.  So I quit cold turkey or let Vera exist.  I know what you're thinking. The answer's too obvious.  Vera may have been groping Shayla before,  but he's graduated to rape.  Just like Shayla, he's left me no choice.  He can't be allowed to exist anymore.  Perhaps we should start with how you're feeling.  Not good.  What's not good right now?  Everything.  Humor me with some specifics.  How do we know if we're in control?  That we're not just making the best  of what comes at us, and that's it.  Trying to constantly pick between two options.  Like your two paintings in the waiting room.  Or Coke and Pepsi.  McDonald's or Burger King?  Hyundai or Honda?  Hmm.  It's all part of the same blur, right?  Just out of focus enough.  It's the illusion of choice.  Half of us can't even pick our own  our cable, gas, electric.  The water we drink, our health insurance.  Even if we did, would it matter?  You know, if our only option is Blue Cross or Blue Shield,  what the fuck is the difference?  In fact, aren't they aren't they the same?  No, man  our choices are prepaid for us,  long time ago.  I'm sorry you feel you have no control.  Thought I was doing something good.  I was a part of this project.  Thought I was going to be a part of something special.  - And now? - Now  It turned out to be a mistake,  like everything else.  What's the point, right?  Might as well, just you do nothing.  Might as well do nothing.  You've brought up this issue before,  this issue of not feeling like you're in control.  Do you remember?  When we spoke about your father.  You talked about how he chose to do nothing  when he was battling his cancer.  You told him he could have  fought the company that caused it.  He could have told people about it.  He could have sought better care than what he was getting.  Instead, he did nothing.  Maybe your father felt the same way as you do now.  After all, like you said, what's the point?  - It's different. - What's different  is you've found options, Elliot.  That's the power you have. That's the control you own.  You don't have to just take what life gives you.  Come on.  Tell me what is going on with you.  I cannot help you if you keep me in the dark.  Shut up!  Shut up!  You've got bags under your eyes.  You're yelling. You're jittery.  For the last month, I have seen you  slip into old patterns, old behaviors.  What is going on?  He's still not answering.  Well, we'll just have to ask him tomorrow.  Every time I try to play it or rip it,  it just freezes up my computer and spits it back out again.  He's not okay.  He was acting so out of it at work today.  Um  Are you saying something, babe?  Something's wrong.  Should I go over there?  And just  Check in on him?  Uh come on.  That's ridiculous.  You know he's always been a weirdo, right?  I'm really worried about him.  Um  My Arizona buddy Fred hit me up.  He wants to grab a drink.  Shouldn't take too long.  Okay.    - Nice one, bro. - Nice.  "Deep passions, longing  The two of them had never felt such a love,  such closeness, such a connection."  - Found a way to do it without - Shh!  Sit down.  I know how to take out the backups  without blowing up the pipeline.  You know, Elliot, I really feel like we resolved  this thing between us. Didn't you walk away?  - I did. - Didn't I say  that if you walked away,  you were no longer a part of this?  I have a real plan  If you want me to let you back in,  there's an understanding we have to come to,  a debt you have to pay,  because, remember, you walked away.  I thought you didn't believe in debts.  Not true. I believe in debts.  I believe in erasing them.  What do you want?  I want you to tell me about your father.  You're not gonna get into my head, man.  Your David Koresh shit isn't gonna work on me.  Tell me how he died.  Why, man? Something tells me  you already looked that shit up anyway.  I wanna hear it from you.  So I do this  we go back to the arcade,  discuss the plan with the rest of them?  I don't know what you want me to say.  We were close. Very close.  He was my best friend.  Worked at Evil Corp his whole life.  He was one of the best computer engineers they had.  And out of the blue, he got fired.  No one knew why.  Then one day he told me.  He had leukemia.  Made me swear to never tell anyone,  especially my mom.  So I didn't.  A few months go by  he got sicker and sicker.  Finally, I got so worried  told my mom.  When he found out, he got pissed.  Started yelling.  I remember I tried to hug him, tell him I'm sorry, and  kept shoving me away and shoved me so hard  I fell backwards out the window.  I fell, and I broke my arm.  Never spoke to me after that.  Couldn't even look at me.  Even the night he died.  We good?  I understand what it's like to lose a parent.  It's heartbreaking.  Did you ever think he was right?  About what?  Hurting you that day?  For what you did to him?  You ever think you deserved it?  I didn't do anything to him.  I was trying to help him.  For betraying his trust.  I was eight years ol  You didn't commit to the sacred pact you'd formed.
I will be the youngest executive this company has ever seen.  All right, you know, I'll take it if you leave us alone.  All right? Thank you. Check track two out.  - I will, track two. - All right, man.  Why didn't you tell me about the DAT file?  Worked at Evil Corp his whole life.  Then out of the blue, he got fired. No one knew why.  He had leukemia. Made me swear to never tell anyone.  Finally, I got so worried, told my mom.  And when he found out, he got pissed.  You ever think you deserved it?  I was eight years old.  You didn't commit to the sacred pact you had formed.  My approach within our business units,  is to first invest in new technologies and develop prototypes  in order to understand the technology potential.  Because despite the recent success of our cybersecurity team,  our company currently still has  seventy-two potential hacker vulnerabilities  in our primary and second No, wait a second  You stupid piece of shit.  Again.  Our company currently still has 73 potential hacker vulnerabilities  in our primary and secondary data centers.  Now is not the time to be encumbered  by the company's tragic and shameful loss of our chief tech  Too formal, God damn it!  Warm it up, don't be a cold robot.  Again! Now is not the time  to be encumbered by the company's tragic and shameful loss  of our Chief Technology Officer.  We have to be swift in naming a replacement CTO.  And, sir, I would like to suggest it be me.  For the sake of our company  that we make our decision today.  My promotion  My internal promotion shows not only our confidence as a company,  but strength in our boldness to the public.  Thank you for your time.  You will be the next CTO of this company.  You will be the next CTO of this company.  You will be the next CTO of this company.  You sure you don't want anything? Pellegrino? Tea?  Sir, thank you again for seeing me.  Tyrell, I'm gonna have to reschedule this.  - Anwar, set up another time. - Sir, it's just that I think that  I get it, I get it. We'll get another meeting on the books right away.  We've got a really good CTO candidate  the board is very excited about.  They're not ready to discuss it yet.  We'll loop you in.  Just give us a couple of weeks. Hmm?  Uh, put Wellick back on the books. Two weeks.  Oh, nice tie.  Let me guess. Brioni?  Great taste, as always.  Be well.  I'll email your assistant the details.  If you could,  just email it to me directly.  This is too important for me to miss.  Happy New Year 2016 - New Year, New Color ;-)  Mr. Wellick, we're here.  Do you think I could have 300 this time?  Spoken like a true capitalist.  Bad day at the office?  No kicking  Argh. Please. Enough. No more.  Most coders think debugging software is about fixing a mistake,  but that's bullshit.  Debugging's actually all about finding the bug.  About understanding why the bug was there to begin with.  About knowing that its existence was no accident.  It came to you to deliver a message,  like an unconscious bubble floating to the surface,  popping with a revelation you've secretly known all along.  I don't know why I'm saying all of this.  Maybe it's because I'm pumped up on whatever smack legal drug dealers  like Eli Lilly make money off nowadays.  But usually it's because there's a sense it's coming.  A bug buzzing its way towards me  to gum up the works until it forces me to make a call.  "Kill me or embrace me."  Or maybe I'm just freaking out because I never thought I'd wake up  to find these two women staring back at me.  Are you awake?  I don't know.  What are you doing here?  We talked, maybe a few hours ago when I first got here.  You don't remember?  They said I was your emergency contact.  Um, all right. Um  You told them to call your psychiatrist.  You can't leave until you talk to one.  So I'm gonna wait outside.  Hey.  Do you remember requesting me from the staff?  You requested me because the police said that  I got jumped by a bunch of kids.  It's not the end of the world.  They wanted to do a full drug panel and you refused.  May I ask why?  Elliot, if we can't have a conversation about this  I've been taking morphine.  Why?  I don't have a good enough reason to give you.  I Wish I did, but I don't.  Maybe we should consider rehab.  I'm not a junkie.  Then you'll need to prove it to me.  Submit to a bimonthly drug test. Voluntarily.  That's the only way that I'll recommend your release.  Hospitals, a heavily networked one like this  are almost too easy to hack.  This is William Highsmith.  He's not only the head of the IT department here,  he is the IT department.  He's also an idiot.  Not that I blame him because the people that hire him are also idiots.  The poor guy only gets a budget of about 7,000 bucks a year.  And he's supposed to protect their network from people like me?  He never stood a chance.  He uses useless virus scans, dated servers, and security software  that runs on Windows 98.  It's one of the reasons why I made this place my primary care facility.  I can make my health records look like every other obedient zombie out there.  Okay. You don't have to worry.  I'm not going to do morphine again.  That's a nice breakfast.  Sorry, credit card system is down.  Like I said, the most difficult thing about debugging  isn't fixing the bug,  it's all about finding the bug.  For Evil Corp, Mr. Robot found that bug in me.  I was the mistake that led to all of this.  I have to ask you one thing.  Did you have something to do with Vera getting busted?  Shit, Elliot.  You said you weren't gonna do anything.  He's on murder charges, do you know that?  His whole crew bounced. I mean, I  I don't know what I'm gonna do for money now.  Just tell me, Elliot.  And don't lie.  Did you do something?  No.  Hmm.  Hey.  Hey.  Are you okay?  - I mean with everything that happened to - I'm fine.  What happened to your door?  You're not supposed to be here.  Okay, I changed the locks for a reason.  Mmm.  Interesting toy,  but you may want to spend a little more scratch if you actually want it to,  you know, work.  Check it,  Jessica Alba says she wants to join fsociety.  Jesus, what happened to your face?  What's going on?  Well, I'm not the princess of social graces,  but typically it goes something like,  "Hi, this is Darlene"  Stop.  You need to leave.  Babe, seriously, we have a lot of shit to discuss, so if you wouldn't mind  Get out.  I suggest you get a grip.  I mean, what was she talking about?  I gotta get to work.  Work? Are you serious? You can't go to work.  You have to call in sick.  I have to go.  A bug is never just a mistake.  It represents something bigger.  An error of thinking  Sir!  that makes you who you are. Sir! Sir!  Sir, you dropped your wallet!  Thanks. Sure.  Stop! Stop! He stole my purse!  That was your wallet?  Yes, that was my wallet you just gave him.  Stop!  He got into my system.  And he wants me to put the CD on one of the computers at work.  Why does he wanna do that?  I don't know, Stella,  he didn't give me a full explanation.  So, he's got naked pics of me?  Is that the only thing you're seriously taking away from this conversation?  Hey, babe.  Hey.  How was your run?  Strange.  Someone dropped their wallet.  And I picked it up to give it to them, but then this  Nothing strange about that, just shows how good of a person you are.  Always have been. Almost to a fault.  What does that mean?  Just that you  You're too good for the world.  That's probably why I love you.  I'm gonna hop in the shower.  I told you I can't talk.  You have 100 hours precisely.  After that,  everything we own will be released.  And it's not enough just to focus your attention on the logs.  We should also monitor social-media traffic, as well as IRC, Pastebin.  And set up scripts to keep going 24/7.  We might get lucky,  we might get sloppy, make a mistake, you know, catch some  This is the world we live in,  people relying on each other's mistakes  to manipulate one another, use one another,  even relate to one another.  The warm, messy circle of humanity.  Elliot?  I'm inviting you guys, uh, to dinner tonight.  Morton's notwithstanding, I cook a mean steak.  What? Can't a boss invite his favorite employees to dinner?  No, that's cool, but I got plans.  Can you guys give us a minute?  Yeah.  You wanna tell me what's going on?  Not really. Well  You're missing work, you come in looking like that,  and you expect me not to ask questions?  Look, I don't know how much you want me asking about your personal life.  But Not at all, actually.  I mean, I don't mean to be rude, just  I'm just being honest.  Mr. Robot may have found Evil Corp's bug,  but he didn't find mine.  That's the only way to protect myself,  never show them my source code.  Close myself off.  Create my cold, perfect maze where no one can ever find me.  Elliot! I cannot believe you work here. This place is a shithole!  Look, I thought I'd swing by, take you to lunch.  Oh, that's nice.  I think she likes you, bud.  All right, fine, I'll take her.  But let the record show, I was trying to be a good wing man.  Oh, calm down! Shit.  I'm not that into redheads anyway.  The whole nation of Ireland makes my dick soft.  Leave.  Darlene said we need to talk.  Leave, now.  You're right, probably shouldn't talk here.  Let's go to that bar next door.  I'm not going anywhere with you.  I'm not going anywhere until you do.  So, I can hang out here and create a scene,  or you can give me five minutes in the bar next door.  Either way, I'm gonna have fun. Dealer's choice.  Mmm.  What? It's an appletini.  I should kick your ass.  Mmm. If that'll make us square, you have my blessing.  Nah, man, I want nothing to do with you. You're a maniac.  What can I get for you?  Uh, nothing.  Uh, you should probably order something. I'd recommend this.  Fine.  I'll, I'll have a  Appletini.  You should it as a compliment, guy, these things are goddamn delicious.  I get it, compliments make me uncomfortable, too.  You know, I find that hard to believe.  Yeah, who am I kidding? I love compliments.  $12.  I really don't think you enjoyed that. I suggest sipping it  Last chance.  What do you want?  I'm sorry for what I did.  I don't buy it.  More importantly, I don't give a shit.  Hey, I never wanted to hurt you.  People who get violent, get that way because they can't communicate.  Your dad  I bet he felt shitty for doing what he did.  I'm sure he wanted to apologize, too.  Sometimes pushing your kid away is just easier.  Don't stay mad at him too long, kiddo.  You're leaving?  That's what you want, isn't it?  What about your plan?  Plan?  You're the key to the whole thing.  Without you, there is no plan.  That's it?  It's over?  You expect me to believe that?  See you in another life.  Did you hear that?  I can't believe it.  Is that really happening?  Fsociety's finally over.  The recent glitch in the otherwise neat reality I created over the years,  I'll never slip up like that again.  I'm gonna be more normal now.  Maybe Shayla could even be my girlfriend.  I'll go see those stupid Marvel movies with her.  I'll join a gym.  I'll heart things on Instagram.  I'll drink vanilla lattes.  I'm gonna lead a bug-free life from now on.  Anything to protect my perfect maze.  Hey, Gideon.  Is that dinner still on for tonight?  Um, yeah, sure.  Uh, uh, you want You want to come?  Yeah.  Great.  Can I bring my girlfriend?  You have a girlfriend?  Well, I haven't asked her yet, but I will.  Hopefully she'll say "yes."  Uh, yeah, sure.  Perfect.  Thanks.  Was he drinking Starbucks?  Are you still trying to rip that CD?  Yeah, it's all scratched up.  Let's get outta here.  My boss invited me to a dinner party at his place tonight.  Thought you could come as my girlfriend.  What?  Are you actually asking me to be your girlfriend right now?  Yeah.  Anyway, I need you. I'm not good in social situations like that.  There is something seriously wrong with you.  I'm I'm not gonna be used anymore.  Why don't you ask the girl from this morning, okay?  She seems like she might wanna go to some stupid, stuffy dinner party.  You don't actually know me.  All you know is that I'm  Of course I know Shayla.  I hacked her email as soon as she moved in next door.  With a simple phishing scam, I owned her password pretty easily.  I'm not talking about the stuff you can find online.  I'm talking about the real me.  Tell me then.  No. Forget it.  I wanna know.  What is this?  It's beautiful.  I've never seen this before, she must  never posted online. Um, I mean, a lot of 'ems not  They're not done.  She's got her own private maze, too.  Took a lot of different pieces, um, from different things.  From my photographs or drawings. And  Like, there's this one.  Um, it's really fucking corny.  But it's like Has everything. The kids and the  Shayla 's bug was always elusive to me.  Maybe this was it,  wanting normalcy, but stuck in the outer fringes.  Not knowing how to participate.  Just like me.  Can I kiss you?  Next time, don't ask.  It's lame.  Bugs usually get a bad rep.  But sometimes  Don't let me down, okay?  When a bug finally makes itself known,  it can be exhilarating.  Like you just unlocked something.  A grand opportunity waiting to be taken advantage of.  Mr. Wellick?  Hey.  What was your name again?  Anwar.  I didn't know you came to places like this.  I don't.  What do you mean? You're here now.  I'm here because you are.  What? I'm sorry, I don't get it.  I think you're beautiful. I wanna take you home.  Wait, I thought you were married.  Because, after all, a bug's only purpose,  its only reason for existence,  is to be a mistake that needs fixing.  To help you right a wrong.  And what feels better than that?  So, Elliot,  do you think you should introduce us?  Oh, um, Shayla,  Angela and Ollie.  You, uh You look lovely this evening.  What up guys?  You just get here?  Nice suit.  Thanks, dude.  What is up with you?  You've been fidgeting all night.  Maybe we should try the doorbell again.  Hey guys!  How have you been standing out here?  The doorbell is broken. I should have warned you.  Come in! I'm Harry, by the way.  Angela. Nice to meet you. Nice to meet you.  Hey.  Always nice to put a face with an employee badge number.  Right?  Ollie, how long have you guys been together?  Uh, two and a half years. Two years.  Okay.  Elliot, how long have you and Shayla been together?  Well, uh  Um, just Just today.  Okay, enough grilling of the guests.  Let's check on the real grill, shall we?  Elliot, I could use your help.  So, I have a confession.  I had the sys admins of the data center in Dulles check that server again.  Gideon, what did you do?  Of course, there was nothing.  I have no idea what there was to even be suspicious about.  I mean, what possible motivation would you have to do anything?  Gideon has to let this go.  If he comes near this hornet's nest,  I'm not sure I can save him from it.  I have to kill any suspicion left.  You've been nothing, but a hard worker for Allsafe.  So,  I apologize.  After the conversation on the plane,  I knew what was at stake.  The whole company.  I was worried that the DAT file I found wasn't the right one,  and I just didn't want to get your hopes up in case I was wrong.  That's why I didn't tell you before the meeting.  Shit, I'm gonna have to let him hug me, aren't I?  You're such a brilliant engineer, Elliot.  You should never doubt your skills,  no matter how much pressure I put on you.  And you certainly don't have to keep anything from me.  I care about you.  From the Mixed-Up Files of Basil E. Frankweiler.  That's where I got the idea, remember?  I wanted to be Claudia Kincaid so bad.  Even her name was cool.  Remember, we thought we were going to the Met,  somehow we ended up at the Queens Museum instead.  No Google Maps back then.  I loved running away with you.  Somehow, when you're eight, running away can be fun.  The normal life.  Smiles, dinner parties,  childhood stories.  I could get used to this,  maybe even like it.  What's wrong?  Evil Corp's hacking scandal continues  with the release of these latest emails.  Information stemming from the latest dump reveals  that Terry Colby was one of three high-level executives involved  in the cover-up of the widely publicized  Washington Township Toxic Waste Scandal.  If these reports are true, Colby may be facing more indictments.  In the ensuing 24 months after the alleged toxic waste leak in 1993,  26 employees died from similar types of leukemia.  Evil Corp, however, managed to get the class action lawsuit  filed against it by the surviving victims dismissed,  claiming there was no direct evidence linking their factories to the diagnoses.  Now, these emails indicate that Colby was in fact aware  of the dangerous levels of toxicity  and kept it a secret, as it quote, "Would not be cost-effective  "to retool the current systems in place, even if there are potential lawsuits."  End quote.  Mr. Colby was unavailable for comment, but his lawyers  My perfect maze  crumbling before my eyes.  data dump are further proof Colby was set up.  But they didn't indicate by whom.  There's nothing to hide behind.  I didn't think it existed, but there it was, is.  Mr. Robot finally found my bug.  linking the waste levels in Washington Township to the victim's illnesses.  Legal analysts support the claim that there is not enough evidence to  What's going on?  That's how my mom, um, and Elliot's dad  I have to go.  Well, wait Wait, let me come with you.  No, I'd rather you didn't.  Evidence in the Washington Township scandal.  Terry Colby remains under investigation  for his alleged involvement  with the Evil Corp executives  because there was no evidence linking the waste dump to leukemia.  Evil Corp is dangerous  Don't look so sad.  He did this to himself. He gave in. He was a coward.  He was weak and pathetic,  and, in the end, that's what killed your father.  Why are you crying?  Don't ask so many questions.  I miss him.  There's no point to that.  But I do.  Then you're just as weak as him.  You're not sad?  Why should I be?  It's a beautiful night.  The weather is nice.  And I'm enjoying my cigarette.  The bug forces the software to adapt,  evolving something new because of it.  Work around it or work through it  No matter what, it changes,  it becomes something new,  the next version,  the inevitable upgrade.  You're a strange creature.  I'm just a businessman.  And that's about as clean as I'm gonna get it.  You have to do the rest in the shower.  I don't mind being a little dirty.  I do.  You should join me!  Yeah, I'll be there in a minute.  Hey.  I'm sorry that I ran off like that.  Did you talk to him?  Nope. He wasn't home.  Well, I'm here.  I want to talk to you about everything, just not tonight, okay?  So, you'd talk to him, but not your own boyfriend?  It's different, Ollie.  Both of our parents died because  That's how we know each other.  I really don't wanna talk about this right now.  Well, what if I do?  What if you do what?  Wanna talk!  About  Something.  What the hell are you talking about?  I have to tell you something.  I don't know why you're You're putting yourself through this,  you don't have to keep looking at it.  All right? It meant nothing.  Okay, I know I sound like a broken record, but I love you,  and I wanna be with you. Stop speaking.  Just tell me what you need in order for me to fix this,  and I'll do it.  We need to break up.  Angela, come on.  What choice did you give me, Ollie?  Look, I know I have a problem,  I'm not denying that. Well maybe my problem is  I can't be with a guy with your problem.  Where's the CD?  It's in my In my bag. Why?  He has my bank account, Ollie. And my dad's bank account.  How did they Our accounts are linked  because of my student loans. I used your laptop to access it.  He has my dad's social security,  his credit card numbers, everything.  Okay.  Okay, that is bad, but I'm But I'm sure the cops will figure out a way  If we don't do what this guy says and we go to the oops,  then he's just gonna sell our information to the highest bidder,  and me and my dad are completely screwed.  Do you have any idea how difficult it is  to come back from massive identity theft like this?  What are you saying?  Angela? Are you crazy?  No. We cannot just infect Allsafe's network because of this.  I'll lose my job!  And there it is.  You'll lose your job too, if that matters.  Besides, even if we put the CD in,  who says this guy won't just do all of this anyway?  Hey. Hey, hey. Come here.  Look at me.  We are going to figure this out.  Okay?  You're right. You're right.  I'm sorry. I'm just scared.  I don't wanna break up with you. I'm sorry that I said that.  I love you so much.  This is Edmond Dulles.  Yeah, hi. This, um, Gideon Goddard at Allsafe Security.  I need to talk to Sean Skyler about server CS30 again.  Hold please. I'll transfer you.  Mmm-hmm.  Here's the plan.  Happy New Year 2016 - New Year, New Color ;-)
1 Steel Mountain. The hacker's dilemma.  What to do when a bunch of data you want to destroy  is completely off the grid?  Hello, Evil Corp. We are fsociety.  Man of the hour. Take a curtsy.  Dark Army?  They got no code. They hack for anyone:  Terrorists, North Korea, Iran, Russia  Yo, yo, yo, yo, my album just dropped.  Please buy my CD.  He has my bank account, Ollie.  We cannot just infect Allsafe's network because of this.  (Darlene) Can we please hear the plan?  Where are we at with Steel Mountain?  I know how to take out the backups  without blowing up the pipeline.  What do normal people do when they get this sad?  They reach out to friends or family.  I do morphine.  (Elliot) There it is.  After all the searching, scraping, dusting,  that's all that's left.  One line. The last line.  The consequences of busting Vera and meeting Mr. Robot,  creating you everything till now, this moment.  I chose this. I chose all this.  Data storage facilities like Steel Mountain  it's linear-tape open standard 9.  Temp value between 61 and 95.  Iron oxide in mag tape  it sticks to polyurethane with a binder.  If HVAC conditions surpass the ceiling 95 degrees,  polyurethane adhesive mollifies and tape data is unreadable.  [upbeat suspenseful music]    [sizzling]  This is what we're doing.  This circuit board, if installed behind a thermostat,  it lets us plant an asymmetric back door  then create a VPN in the Steel Mountain intranet.  Okay, we all know what a Raspberry Pi is.  What's your point?  He wants to hack Steel Mountain's  climate control system,  raise the facility's heat high enough  to destroy all the tapes.  And you think sticking this behind the thermostat  will do all that?  With the right software specifically designed.  I'll pull up my research on the facility,  start targeting which thermostats  are the most accessible.  Yeah, well, that's all well and good,  but we still gotta get in the damn joint.  (Romero) There. Deep in the Adirondacks.  In 145-plus acre former limestone mine.  3-ton steel gates, 24/7 armed guards,  closed circuit cameras, NOC staffing.  Sure you don't want to just blow it up?  - [scoffs] - [Romero exhales]  All we need is one security flaw.  Look at this place, man. It was built not to have any.  I see about six walking around.  [coughs]  You okay, man?  [coughing]  (Romero) What the hell?  Where you going?  We're done, aren't we?  (Elliot, voice-over) That was about the time the withdrawal started.  Remember?  I know I broke my own rule.  But I have no Suboxone.  What I do have clinical depression, social anxiety.  A day job, a night job, confusing relationships.  Others depending on me.  Taking down the largest corporation in the world.  And I chose it all.  This line has wanted to own me my whole life.  Biosynthesized in some lab in Mexico, packed into a pill,  shipped to the States where it was packaged  with a logo and taxed by the government,  stolen by a bribed guard, sold to a Vera henchman,  oversold to Shayla, and then to me.  It needs me just as much as I need it.  The moment was destined, every choice bringing me  closer to this one line.  This line. This last line.  I promise.   Today will be the worst of it.  Get through the next couple days, and then I'll be clean.  [shouts] What do you want?  Huh?  [knock on door]  [pounding on door]  It's me. Open up.  I would have saved you the trip to the door  but you're all, like, against me breaking in or whatever.  Why are you here?  Romero got some clarity on your little plan  that's gonna need your undivided.  - Okay, let's go. - What's going on with you?  You look like shit.  I'm fine.  [low chatter]  Look, man. This plan's not gonna work.  Why? Why is that?  I was doing recon on Steel Mountain.  Came up with a problem. A big, fat one.  Evil Corp's upping their security protocol.  If you ask me, it's overkill, but it's legit.  I already told you, they have their vulnerabilities.  So what happens after we hack the New York facility?  Then we have to take a trip to Nashville,  then Colorado, then San Jose,  then goddamn Tallahassee.  Ugh, this looks real bad. Real bad.  They are physically copying then shipping  all the analog backups.  Five big-ass fortress-like redundancies across the country.  Now maybe and it was always a big maybe  we get into one, but no way we get into all of them.  The minute we fry one facility,  they'll patch every climate control system they own.  No matter how you slice it, the plan is DOA.  Where'd you get this?  What the hell do you mean?  We're still in Evil Corp's network.  [softly] Shit.  This is what Tyrell was talking about.  What'd you just say? Tyrell?  As in Tyrell Wellick?  Yeah.  Since when did you and the goddamn CTO  of Evil Corp become, what, chums?  Says this isn't happening till April 1st.  It's only the 29th.  We still got a few days.  We have time.  All their tapes are still in the New York facility.  Just means we go up today.  We're nowhere close to being ready.  Well, I've already downloaded all the necessary PDFs  of the floor plans to target the thermostats.  It will require some planning,  but nothing I can't do in the car.  It shouldn't take me long to own  the facility's SCADA network.  Especially with some help.  You guys hit the road  while Trenton helps me  finish the distro.  We'll double-time it.  You can get it off the FTP server as soon as you get there.  What about China?  We'd have to execute the hack before Tuesday.  Don't worry about China.  I'll it up my Dark Army contact as soon as you take off.  Oh, you just gonna hit up  the world's most dangerous hacker crew?  Pssh, ya'll have gone and misplaced your collective minds.  We've been planning this for months.  Now we're gonna go up on a lark just 'cause he said so?  This plan is shit.  (Elliot) The plan will work.  And once we're actually there, I still need to prep  the social engineering, plus we have no idea  who physically's gonna go in.  It's my plan. I'll go in.  Look, man, you  you might be able to hide it from these nerds,  but I know a junkie when I see one.  In your condition, you ain't gonna do Jack or Jill  except puke your brains out  or give hand jobs for another high.  Like you said, in three days, one Steel Mountain becomes five.  That's no good for any plan.  Something ain't right about this guy.  Yeah, well. He's gotten us this far.  Still, I don't trust him.  Well, it's not about trust, remember?  [car alarm activates]  [device beeps]  Thank you, Mom.  - There it is. - All right.  Come to Daddy.  [tense bass rhythm]    [engine revs] (Romero) Yeah. Ha ha ha.  Yo, man.  You gonna say anything about this?  What's there to say?  You seem to have everything under control.  Yeah. Okay.  - This isn't my operation. - [laughs]  [coughing]  I told you before.  You're the key to the whole thing.  You're the only force of nature at play here.  (Elliot, voice-over) There's a saying.  The devil's at his strongest  while we're looking the other way,  like a program running in the background silently,  while we're busy doing other shit.  Daemons, they call them.  They perform action without user interaction.  Monitoring, logging, notifications.  Primal urges, repressed memories, unconscious habits.  They're always there, always active.  We can try to be right, we can try to be good.  We can try to make a difference,  but it's all bullshit.  'Cause intentions are irrelevant.  They don't drive us. Daemons do.  And me? I've got more than most.  [retches]  (Elliot) I just need to rest a minute, okay? I'll be fine.  (Romero) Bullshit a couple hours,  you'll wish you felt as shitty as you do right now.  Wait till the convulsions start.  Full body pains, leaking from everywhere, then  (Elliot, voice-over) Hypersensitivity to brightness and sound.  After that, overwhelming paranoia  followed by the darkest of depressions.  Symptoms may persist for two weeks,  assuming I last that long.  Yeah, I know what's in store.  Romero may have a point.  You're not gonna be good for anything till you kick this.  I it burns.  [shaky breathing]  (Elliot, voice-over) Don't be mad at me.  I know I slipped, but I'm about to change the world.  I'm about to change the world.  [soft thud]  - [whispers] Shit. - [inhales]  Mm, that is the way I like to get up in the morning.  Screw coffee or breakfast in bed.  The first thing I could see every day  is that sweet butt of yours.  I'd be the happiest dude in the city.  Are you going somewhere, babe?  Yeah, um, I'm gonna meet my dad for brunch.  What? No, babe.  I was gonna take you to brunch.  I mean, I know that things are, like, okay  between us right now, but I'm I'm not  gonna let myself off easy, all right?  You will be wined, and you will be dined  until I feel I've gotten myself out of the doghouse.  Well, we can do something tonight, then.  Perfect.  - Okay. - No.  [knock at door]  Oh, hey.  Is Elliot around? I tried texting him.  Uh, he didn't text me back.  Yeah, he's gone for the day,  which is why I'm on Flipper duty.  Where is he?  Shit if I know.  I mean, I don't ask details,  but he only ever tells me what he wants anyway, right?  And I'll tell him you stopped by.  Do you want to walk with us?  Flipper loves an audience when she pees.  Sure. Yeah. I gotta  head back towards the subway anyway.  Oh, we don't plan our path.  I mean, we just kind of wing it  and see where the moment takes us.  Come on.  Come on, before she bursts.  (Elliot, voice-over) Maybe this was all intentional.  My subconscious, running in the background,  making me doubt what I got everyone else to believe in.  Turning me into the physical manifestation of my fear  of being a  Goddamn waste.  Just give him a night to recover, okay?  - We still have tomorrow. - This shit'll last a week.  And I refuse to waste my time playing nurse.  We gotta get back, regroup, start devising a plan B.  [electronic stuttering]  (man) The rabbit is in the administration system.  - Send a flu shot. - Rabbit, flu shot  - Someone talk to me. - A rabbit replicates  till it overloads a file, then it spreads like cancer.  Cancer?  Hollywood hacker bullshit.  I been in this game 27 years.  Not once have I ever come across an animated singing virus.  I have yet to fly through a Tron City directory structure.  I bet you right now some writer's working hard  on a TV show that'll mess up this generation's idea  - of hacker culture. - [loud traffic noises]  [dramatic music]  [keys clicking softly]  All you had to do is ask, klepto.  I've updated the FTP.  All the files are ready.  - I've created - Any word from the road?  Jesus, it's been a full 24 hours.  Where the hell could they be?  Got any Advil?  [pills rattling]  I'm guessing you didn't make contact.  Nope.  Perhaps this plan was a little too ambitious.  We'll wait until the rest of them get back  and then reevaluate.  Sitting here helpless while we crash and burn?  Not my speed.  Even if they hack into Steel Mountain,  we need to hit China's data centers simultaneously.  If the Dark Army isn't compliant,  then there's not much we can do.  [laughs] God shit!  I got so wasted, I forgot it's Sunday.  I know where my guy will be.  (Trenton) Is that wise?  Those guys aren't known for being the most understanding.  I'm assuming if he wanted contact  What about what I want?  [rustling in purse]  I'm coming with you.  No, thank you.  You stick around, wait for the boys to FTP it.  Hey, Trenton.  Here.  - What is this? - Come on, they're my last two.  Is this ecstasy?  No, it's clarity.  It'll help you see past whatever's bringing you down.  I'm sorry. I don't mean to be rude.  I don't do drugs.  - I mean, I I smoke weed - Well, sorry,  but there's no take-backs, so  Besides, don't you want to figure your shit out?  For me, sometimes when I'm going through something,  just gotta I don't know.  Forget about it for a little while.  [clacking sounds]  [rock pop music in background]    Are you seriously drinking  a goddamn sparkling water right now?  If you weren't wearing my scarf, I'd kick your ass.  I think we should go.  Trust me he's here every Sunday, okay?  He'll show.  [dramatic music]    (Mobley) Jesus Christ, Romero. What are we gonna do?  (Romero) We dump him at a hospital,  come up with an alternative course of action.  - That's our only option. - (Mr. Robot) No. No hospital.  (Romero) Then we split. Screw it.  I mean, you say it all the time yourself,  there's casualties in every revolution.  All that matters is the end result.  We got no time to haul dead weight.  Fine! You wanna leave, leave.  Screw this, man.  [door closes]  I need a hit.  - [scoffs] - I'll be better.  Just to get me through this.  I can't let you do that.  One hit.  You know, just to get me back on the road.  We don't have time. This  needs to happen now.  One hit.  [tense music]  [grunts] Come on.  Let's go.  'Scuse me, fella.  You lookin' for something?  He could really use a helping hand.  Yeah, okay, he can go in. But only him.  Uh, no can do. I gotta come with.  Only if you're partaking, otherwise he goes it alone.  Here you go.    The guy in the house will set you up right.  Long as he doesn't kill you.  [laughs]  (Mr. Robot) All right, look, the minute you're done  you leave.  You don't look at anyone. You don't talk to anyone.  You take care of business and you get out.  Hey. Nod if you understand.  [tense music and drums]    [muted TV in background]  (man) You want?  [man coughs]  Hey.  Big eyes.  It's all good, man. Go on.  (Elliot) I just  I need morphine. Pills.  No, man.  This is all we got right here.  It's better.  [whispers] Trust me.  Go on.  There you go. There you go.  (Woman) I'll help.  It'll be okay. I'll help.  [TV continues in background]  [low chatter]  (Elliot, voice-over) Have I sunk this low?  What must you think of me?  Is it spring? Election year?  Shall I hibernate?  Did we meet? In money we trust.  No, I created stop.  I can't control thoughts. I need this.  I know I promised my last line, but  [exhales]  [TV continues in background]  [voices distort]  - [distorted voices] - Greedy bitch!  [thud, clatter]  [gunshot]  - [gunshots] - [squeals]  [men grunting]  - [gunshot] - Aah!  - [overlapping shouting] - Shit, man  [gunshot]  [shouting] [running footsteps fading]  (TV announcer) Wednesday, Thursday, Friday,  here's that seven-day forecast for the tri-state area.  Lots of clouds today, but mostly sunny  through Thursday with temperatures  in the mid to the upper 80s.  And you will notice that the humidity  will be a tad uncomfortable.  [static]  (Mr. Robot, synthesized voice) Dear brothers and sisters,  now is the time to open your eyes.  If you have not yet woken up to the reality  of profiteering and enslavement we've been warning you about,  I hope you realize we are fast running out of time.  The governments of the world and their corporate masters  do not want us to speak.  Why? Because we unlock truths.  We expose villains. We exorcize demons.  Citizens of the world, we are here to help.  If you have any interest in waking from your slumber,  in retrieving lost, damaged, or stolen memory,  we are here for you.  We have your back. We are fsociety.  [static, jumbled voices]  [distorted voice] What's it open?  It belongs to you now.  Made in the Orient.  Made just for your head.  Now, find your monster, then turn the key.  But first  a word from our corporate overlords!  [static]  (woman) If you see our logo, that means you can rest assured  that you're buying the best food,  clothing, shelter,  transportation, hygiene, electronics,  and life's necessities that money can buy.  [dog barks distantly]  [child humming]  [humming Frre Jacques]    Hello.  Hello, friend.  But we're not friends.  Can you tell me what happened to that house?  First can you tell me? What's your monster?  [giggles]  [giggling]  I think you dropped this.  [continues humming  Frre Jacques]    [Elliot picks up tune]  [both humming tune]  Ding dong ding   Ding dong ding   (Qwerty) Don't be shy now.  You can come closer.  Unsettling, I know.  Your pet beta fish chatting you up.  But time's money, Elliot.  You need something?  Your water does it need changing?  When you live in a fishbowl, ain't no such thing as change.  My entire life's been spent in this thing.  My whole world's on your side table.  I look around same shit, different day.  The lighting, the furniture.  Even the sounds always the same.  I'm on a loop,  and it won't stop unless my life does.  I'm exhausted with this world.  What can I do? I wanna help.  I think it's pretty obvious.  There's really only one thing you can do  for a brother in a fishbowl.  What is it?  [shouts] Move him to a goddamn window!  [dinner music in background] [muted conversations]  [phones ringing in background]    Angela, he's my friend.  Yes.  And he's delicious.  Here.  [soft piano music continues]    - (woman) Eat this. - Mm-mm.  (woman) Open.  It's piping hot, so consume with caution.  Pop's famous raspberry pie.  Enjoy.  [crunching]  Mm  Yes.  Yes!  Yes, Elliot, I do.  - [giggles] - [applause]  Elliot, I do!  - I do! - [whistles]  Don't you know your queen   [Too Bright's Queen]  Whipped   Heaving   Flower bloom at my feet     Oh   Don't you know your queen   Ooh   Cracked   Peeling   Riddled with   Those people in there  I just told them what they wanted to hear.    You're not gonna do it, are you?  Change the world.  Figures. You were only born a month ago.    You're afraid.  Afraid of your monster.  Do you even know what it is?    It doesn't fit.  Why not?  [voice distorts] Isn't it obvious?  You're not Elliot.  You're the  [static]  (Elliot) Hello? [Child laughs]  Hello?  [children laughing, voices echo]  [silence]  [ominous music]    (Elliot voice-over) Am I still alone?  Is this the face of my only friend?  Are you my monster?  [Elliot, synthesized voice] I am here. You are alone.  [overlapping video game sounds]  [bells dinging, volume increasing]  They all left.  They all left.  [mutters] They all left.  [voice breaks] I'm alone.  I'm alone.  [sniffling]  [whispering] I'm alone.  (Mr. Robot) No, you're not.  I'm not going anywhere, kiddo.  We're in this to the end.  (Trenton) Maybe you should just walk. Ballet seems  out of your skill set.  (Darlene) What? Screw you, young'un!  This bitch can pli with the best of 'em.  You know, when I'm not bangin' on a keyboard,  I'm schooling classmates with moves like this!  Ooh!  Good lookin' out.  I'm sorry he never came.  [distant pop music]  Let's let's just go.  I am a menace to society!  What?  - Wait, where are you going? - It's him.  [suspenseful music]    [yelling in Chinese]  Phone. Now!  Come on.  [shouts in Chinese]  [engine turns]  [Hell of a Night, muffled]  Go, go, go, go   Get up out your seat, you can have my drink   -  Let me see you dance  -  [cell phone buzzes]   Get up off your feet, you can be my freak   Let me see you dance dance, dance   When the sun falls   Then the moon lights   Why am I still out?  I have to be at work  - in four hours! - [laughs]  There's a lot I'm gonna miss about this gig.  What are you gonna do for money now?  [sighs] Oh, you know. Just be a hottie waitress.  I'm, uh Oh, thank you.  Glad you liked it.  Thanks.  Although I am glad I got in one last hurrah  before going all corporate.  [rap song continues]  You're not worried?  Worried about what?  I don't know.  I always get worried before starting a new job.  [laughs] No. I am definitely not worried.  Worry's a waste of time.  I mean, shit didn't work out at one job, so I got another.  That's all!  Go, go, go, go   You worry a lot, don't you?  [song continues]    Yeah.  -  When the sun falls  -  Go, go, go, go   -  Then the moon lights  -  Go, go, go, go   Might be a hell of a night, go   Oh, yeah, yeah   Got the whole world, trying to figure out Q   You can never find a [ ] do what I do   TDE, I'm the [ ] from the crew   Hit it one time, now she want round two   Ghetto [ ] but I love them bamboos   No [ ] but I chopped and screwed   She want a groovy type bucket hat dude   Champagne pop, I'm about that life   Molly gonna pop, I'm about that life   Molly gonna pop   Look in the mirror.  Might not remember this night   World might end so I'm livin' my life   Hanging out   See that badass bitch?  Go, go, go, go, go   That's the only person you should ever worry about.  Get up off your feet, you can be my freak   Let me see you jam, jam, jam   -  When the sun falls  -  Go, go, go, go   -  Then the moon lights  -  Go, go, go, go   Might be a hell of a night, go   Ooh ooh ooh ooh   -  Go  -  Go   Go   Ooh ooh ooh ooh   -  Go go go go  -  Then the moon lights   -  Go  -  Go   Might be a hell of a night   -  Ooh ooh ooh ooh  -  Go   Might be a hell of a night, go   Ooh ooh ooh ooh   Do you know how hard it's been for me to find you?  [whack]  Come here.  Yo, you need to chill.  Go to hell, asshole!  [chuckles]  There she is.  A ray of sunshine in the dark void of my existence.  Oh, poetic.  But not an apology.  I ain't apologizing for shit.  Oh, this is because I dumped your ass.  For real? You're gonna start pissing me off.  Sorry I wanted to spend my life with you.  What a monster I am.  Things are happening, Cisco.  We need to go tomorrow.  It's our only shot.  Then you never had one.  Look, I'm serious, Darlene.  These guys don't mess around.  Now, whatever it is you think you're doing  freeing the world, freeing the masses  the guys I work for,  they ain't motivated by kumbaya shit like that.  All right? Now, I'm warning you  for the last time.  Oh, come on.  You know how much this means to me.  Please  just talk to them.  My Aunt Esther cured all her habits with this  liquid anti-diarrheal for the well, you know.  Lemon and salt for the electrolytes,  decongestant for the runny nose.  This is the third one.  Seven more, you'll be good as new.  (Romero) I'ma go pull the van around.  Make sure he keeps chugging those.  Thanks.  Cool.  (Elliot, voice-over) Hello again.  Long time no  whatever it is we do.  I missed you. Where did you go?  Did you leave, or did I?  [low voice talking]  (Elliot) Maybe it was both.  Or neither. Doesn't matter.  [low voice continues]  [praying in foreign language]  Do those hopeful moments scare me?  Of course. Daemons, remember?  [ding]  At some point an "action without user interaction"  will come along and sweep my legs.  This spinning wheel of false highs and true lows  will continue.  That much I know.  [ding]  [suspenseful music]    (Elliot) Daemons they don't stop working.  They're always active.  [ding]  They seduce. They manipulate.  They own us.  And even though you're with me,  even though I created you, it makes no difference.  We all must deal with them alone.  The best we can hope for  the only silver lining in all of this  is that when we break through,  we find a few familiar faces  waiting on the other side.
1 He wants to hack Steel Mountain's climate control system,  raise the facility's heat high enough to destroy all the tapes.  This is what we're doing.  I'll hit up my Dark Army contact as soon as you take off.  You're just gonna hit up the world's most dangerous hacker crew?  He has my bank account, Ollie.  We cannot just infect Allsafe's network because of this.  I'll lose my job!  Evil Corp's upping their security protocol.  They are physically copying, then shipping all the analog backups.  We go up today.  I want you to be where you belong, here with me.  I think I'm happy where I am.  Don't let me down, okay?  That girl in there is mine.  Did you have something to do with Vera getting busted?  He's on murder charges, do you know that?  It's my plan, I'll go in.  You might be able to hide it from these nerds but I know a junkie when I see one.  I'm alone.  No you're not. I'm not goin' anywhere, kiddo.  Happy New Year 2016 - New Year, New Color ;-)  I wish I had better news for you, Fernando,  but this isn't the you're-getting-out meeting.  This is only as much as I could carry.  The DA has more.  How long this gonna be?  We're talking years.  Yo, are you playin'? You get our people out. That's your use to us.  They have a solid case.  For every charge they're gonna lay on you, they have these binders,  your Twitters, your Instagram.  - You said they wouldn't figure this They can't, bro.  I'm tellin' you, it was airtight, V.  Fellas, this isn't The Imitation Game.  The code here is not that complicated.  Besides, who told you to put your business anywhere near social media?  My aspirational little brother.  You know how much money we saved last year?  Made our whole operation way more efficient. We were careful.  You tweeted about every transaction your business was involved in.  That is the opposite of careful.  It's no wonder an anonymous tip turned you in.  Who called in the tip?  This is what is meant by anonymous.  It is now spilled milk.  The information got out and now they're coming down hard.  There's no plea on the table.  They're gonna lay murder one on you.  I ain't pleading anyway. Men can't sentence me.  That is a cosmic responsibility.  Someone's gonna get hurt for this.  That's how we get square with the universe.  Fernando, we need to discuss strategy.  You don't want supermax. No, uh  If they lock me up, the kind of door they close don't matter.  So, that's you. That's who you are.  I know you.  Mmm-hmm.  Excuse me. Pardon me. Pardon me. I already paid.  I just wanna pay my respects. Thank you.  Oh, I'm sorry man. I'm sorry.  I just wanna pay my compliments.  Hey, excellent coffee. Fantastic service.  Buy yourself something nice.  Steel Mountain.  We're trying to penetrate a data security facility whose tagline literally is  Nothing ls actually impenetrable.  A place like this says it is, and it's close,  but people still built this place.  And if you can hack the right person,  all of a sudden you have a piece of powerful malware.  People always make the best exploits.  I've never found it hard to hack most people.  If you listen to them, watch them,  their vulnerabilities are like a neon sign screwed into their heads.  Mobley is a glutton, who lacks discipline from his urges.  I don't want to get bugs. They spread disease.  Romero is a know-it-all. And a hypochondriac.  Bill Harper is our first exploit.  He isn't gonna give the search much scrutiny. He can get us to Level One.  But Bill is not gonna be able to get us to Level Two.  And we need to get to Level Two.  You're gonna ask to speak to his supervisor, Wendy.  She'll get us to exactly where we need to be.  Then we'll be able to get rid of her from the van.  After that, you'll connect the Raspberry Pi to the climate control system  and Bob's your uncle.  Now we can hear you, and you can hear us.  Mr. Robot? His flaw is he's absolutely insane.  We're talking clinical.  When they say, "If your friends jump off a bridge, would you?"  He would, without hesitation. Just to prove something.  He goes in there, he's liable to blow the whole place up,  just like he wanted to in the first place.  Sure you don't wanna look over the info and the map again?  I got it. Okay, James Bond.  Let's go mess this shit up. Boom, boom.  Yes, I also have security flaws. I don't like being outside.  I liked morphine too much. Mr. Sepiol?  I'm talking to you right now and you don't exist.  Sam Sepiol? Sir?  That's you, Elliot.  Okay. So sorry you had to wait.  As you can see, there's always a lot of bustle here.  How can I help you today?  You need a tour. Don't elaborate.  Uh, a tour.  Okay.  I'm sure they told you at reception that we require appointments for tours.  My supervisor gives us all a hard time about that.  I'm Sam Sepiol.  You should look me up.  Okay  A little inelegant, but we can work with it.  Tell you what, have your company call over to new accounts  and we can set something up later this week. Ask for Bill Harper.  They'll know where to find me.  Listen Bill, you think your boss gives you a hard time now?"  "You're gonna get a really hard time right after I walk out of here."  "I'm not rescheduling, Bill."  "When I walk out that door, I'm never coming back."  That's your ass, Bill.  I really think you should look me up.  It It just doesn't work like that, I'm sorry, sir.  You take care, okay?  I'm coming out, it's not working.  It's gonna work. Hang in there.  I was being too weird.  Just like every other tech billionaire.  Slow your roll, it's gonna happen.  It's no wonder Wikipedia is never accurate, anyone can edit them.  Well, not anyone.  Nerds like Mobley built a lot of credit over the years  With his 20,000 edits.  And still, people trust it.  Beholden to all the Mobley's of the world for their information.  Mr. Sepiol? Uh, Mr. Sepiol!  I have some good news.  Stop it. Stop it. Can you stop packing for like five minutes?  Can we just hash this out like adults? I love you.  You don't even know why you're crying.  Let's get married.  Ollie, will you please stop?  Angela, Angela, you cant just give up on us like this.  I mean have you even thought this through?  What are you gonna do? Go live with your dad in Jersey?  Come on.  You're ruining your life. Maybe.  But I also ruined yours.  Why do you have my work ID?  Did you Do you Do you  Do you know what's gonna happen?  There will be fallout from this and I'm gonna tell them.  I used your computer.  So, tell them whatever you want.  Are you seriously  Did you even think about how this would affect me?  I did.  Here's an idea of how big this place is.  We have our own fire department.  Inside the building. Just for us.  And you can't have a fire department without a fire truck.  And you can't have a fire truck without roads.  We have all of that.  Inside. Imagine that.  Elliot, now's the time we get rid of Bill.  There's so much information  Okay. We're gonna need to roll up our sleeves.  You have to destroy Bill in order to get to his supervisor.  There's one vault in here that's 200,000 square feet.  That's the size of a shopping mall.  And that's just one.  Bill, where Where are those giant vaults?  Oh, they're on Level Two. But that's not part of the tour.  Even I don't have authorization.  He's not gonna take you for ice cream. He has to go away.  There's no place in this plan for Bill.  Now, right down here  Everything okay, sir?  We need to tear Bill down, piece by piece.  You need to wipe that smile off of his stupid face.  Sir, are you okay?  You're not You're not saying anything.  Dig into him, Elliot.  You of all people can do this, Elliot.  You know how it feels when someone makes you small.  You understand what happens when someone exposes the thing  you fear most about yourself.  - Answer me! Answer me!  Get up.  Just get  I hate you.  You're nothing.  You're worthless.  Think about it, Bill. Think about what?  If you died, would anyone care?  Would they really care?  Yeah, maybe they'd cry for a day,  but, let's be honest, no one would give a shit.  They wouldn't.  The few people that would feel obligated to go to your funeral  would probably be annoyed and leave as early as possible.  That's who you are, that's what you are.  You're nothing to anyone.  To everyone.  Think about it, Bill.  Because if you do, if you let yourself,  you'll know I'm telling you the truth.  So, instead of wasting any more of my time,  I need you to go call someone that matters.  Because, Bill  You don't.  I'll, um I'll call my supervisor.  And that's why Bill Harper is a perfect exploit.  Desperate enough for the business to break protocol and let me in.  Lonely enough to break.  I need a supervisor in L-1, S-3.  Copy that.  Don't Don't apologize.  You're almost there. You did great.  Once Wendy gets there, we'll send her a text  letting her know her pregnant wife is in labor.  Once she leaves, that should give you enough time to plant the Pi, you dig?  Trudy Davis, Accounts Supervisor. Is there a problem here?  Mr. Sepiol Trudy?  is asking for someone more senior than me.  I don't seem to have your name.  I'm Sam Sepiol?  Is that a question?  Trudy? Trudy? Wendy.  We only prepped for Wendy. Where the hell is Wendy?  I need Wendy, actually.  How do you know Wendy? She didn't come in today.  What is it that you need Mr. Sepiol?  Um, I would love a tour of Level Two.  I don't know what you've been told but we don't allow that.  I'll see you out. You can go, Bill.  Follow me to the lobby.  This woman's a ghost. None of these are her.  No Facebook, no Linkedln.  She's been married for 30 years.  All we have is her husband's cell phone number,  he doesn't even have a picture online.  No hobbies, no kids, no credit problems, no weird sex stuff. House paid off.  So, I need I need to think.  The elevator's almost here.  Yes. That's how they work when you press the button.  Okay.  People People are all just people, right?  When it gets down to it, everyone is the same. They love something.  They want something. They fear something.  Specifics help, but specifics don't change the ways that everyone is vulnerable.  It just changes the way that we access those vulnerabilities.  I, uh, I have to go. I'm sorry. I need to go to my office.  Reception will see you out.  - What'd you do? - I spoofed a text from her husband.  - It's a palm print scanner. - Get out of there.  There's one door manually locked.  It's a fire code thing and I think you can pick it.  Where?  It's at the end of the hallway if you're heading north on L-1.  The stairs don't go to Level Two. They go to a parking lot.  You're on the complete wrong side of the building.  You're gonna have to double back  and go through the door you came in and make a run for it.  Elliot?  I thought I saw you. What are you doing here?  Thank you! Y'all come back to Wingstravaganza.  Okay, real important, Wingstravaganza means "wings" and "extravaganza."  Oh, do you know what "extravaganza" means?  Yep. It's a big deal. You got it.  Mmm-hmm. You look nervous.  Are you excited?  - Oh, yeah. - Okay. So, you'll shadow me for the week.  But don't sweat it. It's like every other server job.  Well, I've actually never been a waitress before.  Oh. This is kinda like a new beginning for me.  What were you doing before?  Pharmaceutical sales. Fancy. You must've made bank.  What happened? Um, you know, Obamacare.  Right this way.  Welcome to Steel Mountain's data center.  Our facility meets diamond specifications  and features a tier-10 certified build and design,  providing you with a safe, rock-solid fortress for your data needs.  All of our facilities implement comprehensive security  measures including rigorous background checks  Exactly.  So, yeah. Elliot.  Nice meeting you. You, too.  Tell your wife I said hi. I will.  Those men I just shook hands with,  financiers of Hezbollah and ISIS.  I wouldn't stare.  Did he know I was gonna be here?  Does he know why I'm here? Shit, he's gonna kill me.  As you were saying  Uh, just a routine data process check.  Allsafe does 'em all the time.  But why would they send you?  That type of thing isn't usually handled by the engineers, is it?  We've been overlapping a lot in our duties.  Budget reasons.  It seems we both had the idea to work off-site today.  Let's call this fortuitous. Join me for lunch?  Sure Sure. I eat lunch.  So you are like the rest of us.  Come.  He got owned man. We gotta go!  We're not going anywhere. This changes nothing.  What can I get you, Elliot?  They have a lot of things here.  He has a vulnerability.  He's an arrogant prick. And he's proud of it.  He cares what you think about him,  even though he probably hates that he does.  Tyrell Wellick's greatest asset is his hubris,  but it's also his flaw. And that's your exploit.  would be nice.  You eat here?  This place?  Is that your plan? To piss him off?  No, wait, man. Wait.  Now, remember, Elliot, you lose our signal on Level Two.  Elliot?  Elliot? Can you even hear us?  I'm impressed you came all the way out here.  Allsafe is finished, but you won't let it die.  We're the same. We're perfectionists.  I've seen our waiter here for the last seven years.  He must be in his fifties.  Maybe has kids, divorced, second wife, more kids.  And I wonder what must he think of himself?  His life's potential reached at a 30-grand a year salary.  An economy car he still owes money on.  A two-bedroom apartment. Child support. Coupons.  I couldn't bear it. A life like that.  The life of an ordinary cockroach  whose biggest value is to serve me salad.  as a backup.  I'm getting a signal on that right now.  I have to go to the bathroom.  Goddamn withdrawals again.  Or is it Tyrell Wellick? Is he toying with me?  What kind of game are we playing?  Am I his malware?  I had to wash my face.  Hard to breathe here.  I know you framed Terry Colby.  I I didn't. Your father worked at Evil Corp before he died.  That's a matter of public record.  I'm not turning you in, if that's what you're thinking.  I don't even have proof, and even if I did, I don't care.  I just wanted to know your weakness and now I do.  Revenge.  How ordinary.  It's like our waiter.  But even extraordinary people,  and I believe you are, are driven by human banalities.  And unfortunately, we're all human.  Except me, of course.  I'm joking, Elliot. Enjoy your long drive back home.  I'm having a helicopter take me back to New York.  You take care, Elliot.  No. Bullshit.  Dude, bullshit. What did they say?  Oh, I don't know, basically that they're a bunch of dickless assholes.  Where you going? To fix it.  No one else is going to.  Darlene, wait.  I really don't think you should keep pushing them.  Put it this way, either I'm fixing this or breaking it.  Their call.  Hi, pumpkin.  Hey, Daddy.  Why aren't you at work?  I broke up with Ollie.  I know. Just got off the phone with him.  Come on.  He was sobbing.  He wanted me to tell you something like,  "I'll always love you. Please come back."  Oh, and he can learn to forgive you.  Jesus.  What did you say?  I told him that I thought you should have broken up with him a long time ago  and hung up on him. Nice.  What did he mean, anyway?  Just normal work and money stuff.  And, well, he cheated on me.  So, there's that.  Well, the cheating part, I'm not surprised.  Not trying to make you feel bad, honey, but come on,  the kid's a douchebag.  As for the money Dad, no.  I'll float you some money.  For professional development. Dad.  Call it a loan.  But do not pay me back.  And you'll stay here and commute until you can save for an apartment.  I can't make you do any of that. And you didn't.  It's what I want.  Are you hungry?  Yeah. No, no. Sit. Sit, sit. Relax.  What would you like?  You don't need to cook for me, Dad.  French toast, coming up!  Mmm-hmm.  Shh.  Why are they backing out?  This is a library.  You want to discuss that, go back to the IRC island.  They banned me from the channel.  What happened?  We just owned Steel Mountain. We did our part and it went perfect.  Come on, we both know that shit didn't go perfect.  Well, it doesn't matter, they called it off.  We pulled our side together and your side called it off like it was nothing.  You got your answer.  You better tell your pal Whiterose  to stop being a pussy and start growing a pair  because we don't have time to dilly-dally around.  And now you're gonna talk about this in the world?  Do you even care who hears you?  Face it, Darlene, it's over.  Walk away.  I can't go back to my people with that.  Tell me why.  You said the Dark Army was with us on this.  Between us?  I'm not about to goddamn tweet about it.  They were out before you ever got to Steel Mountain.  I don't know why. That's all they said to me.  I know you had your heart set, but for real this time, just let it go.  I meet suits, mostly.  No, I imagine it must be exciting to work in government.  It's like a spy movie.  Can you read my secret emails?  No.  My job is mostly paperwork and bureaucracy.  They always want more than the technology allows.  I don't even have time to read your secret emails.  But it's a stopgap. For me, I'm restless.  So, I'm always itching for something else.  There have been a lot of something elses.  For both of us. Mmm-hmm.  Before this, I worked at an NGO.  And before that I worked at, um, Microsoft for a year,  which felt like a decade.  Your place is beautiful.  I wish I could take the compliment.  The decorating is Scott's domain.  No? Really? Yes.  Very nice. Yeah.  Where's all the The antiques from?  They're They're  So they tapped you for CTO, yes?  Don't be surprised.  Suspicious is more accurate.  I was beginning to wonder why you set this dinner.  Four people in the world know about my conversations.  And somehow, you're number five.  Then I'm exactly what you need in a right hand.  So, that's what this is about?  Isn't everything about something?  Like we were thinking about, is it baby-proof?  Uh-huh.  Yeah, that's That's a consideration.  If you were me, would you trust you as your right hand?  If I were you, I wouldn't have even let me in the house.  Hey.  Hey. It's me. Is now a good time?  Yeah. I'm at my new job.  - How's it goin'? - Seriously, it's hard as hell,  but I'm getting the hang of it.  At first it took me, like, years to marry ketchups,  but it turns out, I'm amazing at upselling expensive cocktails.  I'm not surprised.  And then when I have to put together to-go orders,  it's like bagging molly so I'm like kind of an expert.  How are you?  I'm good.  Wow. I've never heard you say a sentence like that before, ever.  I did what I had to do today.  Well, if you're around tonight, come over and tell me about it. Okay?  I gotta go. Okay, bye.  You seem to know how to drink your wine.  I indulge in few things. But, I do love wine.  Yourself?  In my other life, when I could drink for one.  But, even then, I had cheap tastes.  It's, uh, safe to smell, though. Put your nose in there.  You know, to me, it smells like every wine.  But I'd love to learn. Uh-huh.  Dried red fruit.  Fresh violet.  Uh, lemon peel.  Try it again.  Smell. Really, really think about it.  Mmm, I do smell the lemon.  Sharon? Yes?  How do you not blow your brains out  being married to him?  Excuse me?  Shall I repeat the question?  You're a guest in our house. A very honest one.  Wow.  I think I'll mistake what you said  as a joke in poor taste and excuse myself to the bathroom.  Well, I have a beautiful vintage over here.  I would love to just show you the label.  Let's see here. Nope.  Nope. There's the one.  This is my prized possession, actually. Take a look at this.  I'm in here.  Can I help you?  Thank you for a lovely evening.  Siege and storm!  We got problems. Is the Pi online?  Yeah, we're in the whole system.  We could deliver the whole payload right now if we wanted.  - And yet, I hear no applause. - Then applaud.  You have to tell them.  What?  We lost China.  I'm sorry? The Dark Army is bailing.  - Why? - They don't answer "whys," apparently.  That's no problem, we'll just call 'em back, we'll set up another meeting ASAP  Dude, did you not hear me? They've gone dark. It's not happening.  I know, I know. I get it, okay, I fucked up.  Let's not wait, then. Let's do it anyway.  Just us. Let's do it. Right now.  Okay? We execute now.  We execute on our side and trust that the Dark Army  gets their shit together and follows.  Why do they get to dictate terms? We dictate terms.  Shh, shh, shh. We can go now.  If we move forward and they don't, China still holds all the redundant information.  It will be pointless.  And if we wait, it'll also be pointless.  Everything you guys did today would be for nothing.  Ah, are you crazy!  It will have no effect!  It'll take down their network for weeks. They'll recover!  It would still hurt them.  We don't want to hurt them, we want to kill them.  And neither will happen if we do nothing, right now.  What are you doing? Huh?  Take another step, and I'll do it.  Think about what you're doing.  Okay? All right?  In a month, they're gonna be up and running again with even better security.  We are not gonna get another shot at this.  The revolution that we've always talked about will be gone.  Dead and buried.  We will have failed because of you.  Please, do not do this.  Is there anyone here who can communicate with this woman?  Please.  Tell me it's okay to execute.  But we were so close.  It's not over.  We'll rework it. We'll figure something out.  We got this far,  we'll find a way. Just not tonight.  This is all my fault.  Come on. You can crash at my place.  My father picked me up from school one day  and we played hooky and went to the beach.  It was too cold to go in the water  so we sat on a blanket and ate pizza.  When I got home, my sneakers were full of sand  and I dumped it on my bedroom floor.  I didn't know the difference. I was six.  My mother screamed at me for the mess.  But, he wasn't mad.  He said that billions of years ago the world shifting  and oceans moving brought that sand to that spot on the beach  and then I took it away.  "Every day," he said, "we change the world."  Which is a nice thought until I think about how many days and lifetimes  I would need to bring a shoe full of sand home until there is no beach.  Until it made a difference to anyone.  Every day we change the world,  but to change the world in a way that means anything,  that takes more time than most people have.  It never happens all at once.  It's slow. It's methodical. It's exhausting.  We don't all have the stomach for it.  Hey, sweetie.  I'm gonna go for a run.  Nice.  Shayla's got the dog. She doesn't shit on her pillows.  That's a plus, I guess.  - Shayla? - Hey, bro.  Sometimes, the universe aligns perfectly.  Here I am, locked away, but still, it brings you right to me.  Happy New Year 2016 - New Year, New Color ;-)
1 Did you have something to do with Vera getting busted?  Who told you to put your business anywhere near social media?  My aspirational little brother.  Someone's gonna get hurt for this.  What happened to Angela?  She's not gonna work out for us.  Not on this level.  You didn't have to stick up for me in there.  Don't do it again!  Evil Corp tapped you for CTO, yes?  You're ruining your life. I also ruined yours.  Terry Colby was involved in the cover-up  of the Washington Township toxic waste scandal.  Sharon, how do you not blow your brains out married to him?  I'm in here.  Do you mind sleeping here tonight?  That girl in there is mine.  If you're around tonight come over and tell me about it.  Shayla?  Sometimes the universe aligns perfectly.  Here I am locked away, and still it brings you right to me.  I feel the sensation, fight-or-flight.  It's constant.  I should just pick one.  I, Elliot Alderson, am flight. I am fear.  I am anxiety, terror, panic.  Some velvet mornin' when I'm straight  I'm gonna open up your gate  Doesn't feel real.  You should eat.  Not hungry.  I don't even know what I ordered.  I'm sorry.  You don't like the guisada?  Uh, no, it's It's good. Thank you.  What are you thinking about?  The first time we met.  Doesn't feel that long ago.  And now look at us.  Who woulda thought?  If I could go back and undo this  You can't.  You promised me.  I'm gonna get you out of this, okay?  Time's up.  Let's go. Wait.  Sit down.  Come with me.  Let's go.  Happy New Year 2016 - New Year, New Color ;-)  - Hello? - VERA: The origin of your name,  I looked it up for you, bro.  Where are you taking her?  Elliot  "Brave and true."  Did you know the origin of "brave" evolved from "savage"?  I don't know what you think this is about.  But you need to let her go.  Yeah, well, funny thing. My name means something similar.  "Brave traveler, adventurer."  A savage traveler becomes a brave traveler.  Are we savages, or are we brave?  Don't know, bro.  Listen to me, man.  When I found out you did this, I didn't get angry.  I got impressed.  Your power. I want it, Elliot.  And I want it so bad it makes my dick hard.  And I want it today.  Yo, I don't know what you think I can do,  I cant just hack you out of prison.  Not all prisons are networked and even if yours is,  it would take weeks to find security holes.  Has to be tonight. I got crosshairs on my heart.  I don't make it out, I'm dead.  And that ain't meant to be just yet.  You do your thing, bro.  You're asking the impossible.  When we cross paths tonight, Elliot, I'ma hug you.  Please listen, man. Yo, Shayla.  This is on me,  okay? You gotta let her go.  Oh, that? She cool, bro. Trust me, she cool.  She'll be there tonight, too. It'll be one big happy-happy!  Hey, Elliot.  I love you, bro.  Where's Shayla? Man, I'm not gonna tell you again.  Stop askin' so many questions.  Come on.  Vera may be out of his mind.  But, yes, it is possible to hack into a prison's network.  Most of them use regular industrial control systems.  I'm a blind man to what Vera sees in this dude.  Amen. Techie computer hacker genius, my thick Dominican dick.  When you have control of that,  you basically have control of the cell doors.  But what these morons don't know is,  it's almost impossible without any research.  Time to shine your cojones and get to work.  Our only rule, "Do what we say."  You violate that dictate,  we kill your sweetheart.  Yo, yo, Isaac, uh, how my dic-tate? Mmm?  Shut up, bitch.  "Dic-tate."  Vera's bro, Isaac.  Something about him bugs me.  And you know what I like to do when that happens?  Hi, I'm trying to reach Mister Beckett.  When would Mister Lattimer be available?  I can come in today.  I already told you what it's in reference to.  I'm trying again for Mrs. Nayar.  Regarding the Washington Township scandal.  I may have found some information.  Please don't put me on hold again!  Happy Monday, Angela.  How fun.  Thanks. Mmm-hmm.  I'm Emily Moss' daughter  Angela Moss. I called Six times.  Yes. I'm here to discuss the Washington Township case.  I'm listening.  You represented the victims' families.  Twenty-six families. Mine included.  I thought, with the latest news in the data dumps,  the Terry Colby scandal,  his covering up the chemical waste spill  Alleged.  Well, and documents.  Superficial.  But if we bring this stronger, more concrete case.  You'll see that I have the evidence from the data dumps,  along with further research  Stickies. Oh, you've highlighted and underlined.  This is serious.  So, you wanna take Internet gossip to federal court  and throw it at the strongest conglomerate  in the history of civilization?  Guy in the suit.  Twice convicted of sexual assault,  charged again this past weekend.  Raped his pregnant girlfriend, bashed her head in with an Xbox.  Claims she cheated during Halo.  Yet I have a better chance of defending him.  You called back.  I called every lawyer from this case.  And you're the only one that called me back.  Shit, shit, shit  "Connection closed by remote host"?  But we had a fish. I was in.  The exploit started to run and then  Was it the code? Bro, what's the deal?  I gotta take her for a walk. Why?  'Cause she'll piss on the floor if I don't.  You think I give a shit about your goddamn floor?  I'm just playin', brother. Yeah, you can take her.  You hear what I said?  I said you can take her.  Come on.  It's out. Okay, gotcha.  Did she like my little toy?  Did you write that exploit yourself?  I had an hour.  So, what, you just pulled code from Rapid9 or some shit?  Since when did you become a script kiddie?  I repeat, I had an hour.  Malware detection must've caught it. You fucked me.  Hey, don't put this on me.  Okay, this is a shit show and you gave me no time to do it right.  I can run circles around an ICS given the proper whitepapers and time.  Where the hell are you going?  I have no problem telling these two douche tools  they're gonna have to sit on their pricks till we can find a better solution.  You don't understand. These guys are  Assholes? Yeah, I'm gonna tell them what's up.  That's what's up, girl. Hmm? Now, let's go.  So, none of those guys called you back? Not even Lattimer?  Pussies. I bet they didn't even bother to read the data dumps.  But you read them.  You know it took me eight years to rebuild my career  after our case was dismissed?  So,  as much as I think this company is evil incarnate,  and trust me, they are  You know, it's not worth it.  What would it take?  Hypothetically,  what do we need to prove our case?  Hypothetically, a reliable eye witness.  You know, if you miraculously find someone on the inside to flip,  someone who was there when the decision was made  to falsify chemical waste intel  So, unless you're Facebook friends  with one of those assholes  This hypothetical is just that.  Let's move on.  Where're you working these days?  You have a boyfriend?  How's your dad?  I work for a company that doesn't respect me,  my boyfriend recently cheated on me,  and my father is drowning in debt.  I'll see you next time. Okay.  Fluorescent lights are hell, no?  Was there a change in schedule?  I thought I had Spencer next.  These interviews, they're just a waste of your time.  I mean, you know our regulatory and IP issues inside out.  I was thinking we play hooky the rest of the day, hit the back nine.  Is that a Vacheron?  Patek Philippe Tourbillon.  A gift from the Prince of, uh  Oh, does it even matter?  No.  But I'm not blowing off my remaining interviews.  Look,  I know you think you were a shoo-in for CTO,  and you're pissed  Probably wishing I'd fall into the subway tracks.  So, how 'bout you cut the bullshit.  I'm afraid your paranoia has gotten the best of you,  but, nevertheless, please excuse me.  I'll leave you to review your notes before Spencer arrives.  Oh, and thank you for dinner.  The entire evening was enchanting,  the food, the wine  Your lovely Sharon.  Please tell her I say hello.  Did you enjoy the view?  What?  Did you think she wouldn't tell me?  I'm not sure what you're trying  You wanna watch me piss, too?  I've had several glasses of water.  Scott, a misunderstanding.  Happy to pull my dick out for you, if that's your thing,  watching the Knowles family urinate.  Hell,  I could fly my brother in from Miami.  He has a bladder of a small child.  You'd probably bust a nut watching him take a leak.  I'm not sure what she told you, but if I were you,  I would tell her to find more appropriate ways  of managing her imagination.  Tyrell,  I want you to accept a hard truth, right here, right now, in front of me.  You are not going to be CTO.  I want to see that look wash over your face.  It's the only way I know you'll stop playing these  silly, silly games.  Oh, I'm fully aware you're CTO, Scott.  I'm not sure what more I can offer you.  Wait.  Here.  I feel bad. After all, you got a child on the way,  you need all the help you can get.  In fact,  this would probably pay off the rest of your mortgage.  Aren't you still in that neat little two-bedroom in Chelsea?  There.  That's the look I was looking for.  I keep brute-force thinking, but it's not working.  I need help.  Elliot, you in there?  Shit. Why is she here?  Elliot!  Lemme in!  Elliot, you in there?  Little blonde bitty.  Elliot, hit the buzzer!  I know you're in there!  Go. Shut her up and get her the hell outta here.  Elliot. Buzzer. Now.  What about Darlene?  She stays with us. And we'll be watching you,  so don't bother trying any dumb shit, you dumb shit.  Fuck!  Do you understand why you're angry?  Because you know I'm right.  - Hey. - Hey.  I tried looking for you after Gideon's the other night,  where were you?  I had to think about things, you know?  We always knew what Evil Corp did.  We didn't have the proof,  but we knew.  We were right about it all along.  In fact, that news report,  it wasn't a confirmation,  it was a reminder  Of how angry I am.  You remember Nayar?  The lawyer on the case.  I went to her, Elliot.  Listen, Angela, now's not a  I have an idea that will change the world.  I know it sounds really stupid.  But,  I know how to do it.  I think it could actually work.  I can't tell you what it is, because  Evil Corp, Angela, Vera, his brother,  Darlene, Shayla,  - this is too much. - But I feel passionate about it, Elliot.  I should just tell her what she wants to hear.  Angela,  trust yourself.  You'll do what's right.  That's all I needed.  How's Shayla, by the way?  She's, uh  You know  Tell her I say, "Hi."  You have no time to pull off whatever it is you think you're doing.  What are you doing here? How did you know?  Darlene.  These guys aren't playing around, they will fucking kill you.  Now, wise up and let's go.  Darlene's in there. We can't leave.  Okay. Then we call the cops.  I mean there's no other choice here.  It's the only way out of this.  I can't call the cops. Shayla will die.  Oh, come on, she knew exactly what she was getting herself into.  You think his employees have a long life expectancy?  She was dead the minute she started working with that maniac.  Forget it, it's not happening.  This is a zero-sum game. Calculate all the outcomes.  If you don't pull off this ridiculous miracle,  and odds are you won't, you die and so does Shayla.  That much we know.  But assume for a second that you do pull this off,  bust Vera out of prison.  Who's to say he doesn't kill you, Shayla, Darlene?  It would be in his own best interest to do that.  Either way, you all end up dead.  It's the only way Vera wins.  Zero-sum, Elliot.  You're playing a game you already lost.  You know I'm right.  No, there's gotta be a way.  I can think of a way.  I get it, kiddo. You want to help people, watch over 'em.  Best thing you can do for Shayla, allow her to become a memory.  No.  True courage is about being honest with yourself,  especially when it's difficult.  There's no plan where both you and Shayla survive.  I can think of a way.  This new world that we are so close to creating will never be.  And that new world, that is success, fsociety is success.  Look at what you accomplished at Steel Mountain.  That got us nowhere.  You took them down. You won that battle.  This This is failure.  This is the old Elliot. The one who turns to morphine,  to drugs when he feels weak.  A coward, who can't face the truth,  even though it's staring him right in the face.  There's that sensation again.  Fight-or-flight.  Three lives at stake, including my own.  I, Elliot Alderson, am  What?  Tom Petty, Pink Floyd, Van Halen  What's up, man? You ain't got no Drake, no Pitbull,  no nothing? Like, what's up?  What the  What's up, Rain Man?  I'm ready to bust Vera out.  I can get into the network.  We need to go to the jail, now.  She stays here.  No, I'm not leaving you.  Don't worry, he's in no position to be giving out orders.  Let's go, girl.  Remember when the panic would set in and we had a solution?  To be honest, I miss that.  Life is so much easier when you're numb.  What's the plan, bitch boy?  First Shayla, now Darlene.  Yo, what the f Elliot, what are you doing?  Like a hard drive blasted by excessive voltage, my mind is frayed,  close to fried.  I can feel the static running through my brain.  Serotonin receptors working overtime.  I need more time.  Tonight, tonight, tonight.  More time, right now.  I'm working on our project as we speak,  so it's in your best interest to keep talking with me.  At the security desk, my cell phone's running  an undetectable, activated signal sniffer  that will locate any kind of wireless signal in sight.  By the time I leave this building,  I'll own its network.  Good on you. Brave.  But stupid.  You showed your face,  and then I skip out tonight  Who do you think they're gonna finger?  I'm opening every cell.  That way, they can't trace it back to you or me.  Yeah, bro,  that's what I'm talking about!  Woo!  I told you, didn't I?  The universe got big plans for us, bro.  Sit back down.  When you get out, I realize you're gonna have to split.  You won't be able to stay in the tri-state area.  Oh, I love this. Go on.  Wherever you go, you're gonna need funding to keep surviving.  Which means, your whole operation still needs to be making you money.  Come on, Elliot, give it to me!  I hacked Isaac's phone.  He had everything, your crew, shipments, the entire operation.  I took it all. I own your whole world.  I need your word, when this goes down,  Shayla and I go free.  You leave us alone. Forever.  If anyone tries to hurt us, if I even see one of your guys following me,  I leak everything.  You're saying this knowin'  You can kill me anytime? Yes.  Yes. That's why I coded the leak to auto-send every 24 hours  unless I continuously disable it.  No one else has access.  If anything happens to me, or Shayla,  your money gets deleted.  Time's up, Vera. Let's go.  Remember,  I'ma hug you.  So what's your deal?  I'm here to see Terry Colby.  Who is that? Another damn reporter?  No comment. Do you understand?  Do I know you?  Get the hell away from my home, get away from my home!  WPA2 WiFi. Shit.  Borderline unhackable. Getting that handshake could take days.  The noose is tightening.  The mobile feed on the cameras.  I don't need to hack WPA2  when there's dedicated 4G.  We're good, I can pull this off.  Get in. Let's go, girl.  Nah, just him.  - Yo, Isaac. What you doin'? - Nah, bro. It's, it's fine.  I just wanna have a private chat with him.  Come on, it's cool.  We don't have any time, man. I gotta get to work.  Get the fuck in the car!  Hey, man. Where you goin'? Don't be stupid.  All good, all good. We're just gonna have a talk.  Elliot, are you  Why are you doing this? I can free your brother.  I figured it out.  It just wasn't your day, bruh.  I hacked your whole operation. If you kill me, you  You don't get it. Like I said, it just wasn't your day.  Stop.  I suppose a bullet through the brain is peaceful in its own right.  You don't want me to free Vera.  That's why you don't care about the operation.  I'd pick better last words.  You're trying to kill him.  That's why Vera wants to leave tonight.  That's what's been bugging me about you.  You never wanted me to break him out.  Your best option for survival is to kill him in prison,  because if you don't, you're dead.  You're the reason Vera's locked up right now,  and he knows it.  Doesn't matter anyway.  Vera was just gloating about how he got in with the right crew,  how he got the jump on some men.  Uh, he's not worried, man, he's protected now.  Bullshit.  That leaves you with a zero-sum game.  If you don't get him out of jail, he'll have you killed for failing.  Only way this works in your favor is for you to kill him first.  And you can't do that with him inside anymore.  Shut up, motherfucker. Shut the fuck up!  Let me free him.  When I break Vera out tonight,  you do with your brother what you want.  That's the only outcome  where you got the possibility of living.  It's your best move.  What makes you think I still won't kill you afterwards?  I don't.  I'm just playin' my best move.  I need 30 to 40 seconds  with the patrol car's Bluetooth connection  to run the exploit on the PLC.  And then?  The plan executes at 9:49.  All the cell doors should open.  Hey. I wanted to ask you about something.  - Oh, yeah, what's that? - You.  Why don't you just admit you think about  Yeah, gimme a call, we'll grab a drink.  - Talk. Whatever. - All right.  Do you know a good spot nearby?  The exploit's on his laptop.  Now I need to force feed it into the jail's network.  Well, I like what I hear.  I paused the exploit. Drive.  Darlene's no longer part of the plan.  We got an alarm going on right now.  What in the hell?  Tell you what, we go out, we drink, we dance,  see where the night takes us.  You sure you wanna make that choice right now?  I only need to press one key to run the exploit,  or I can press another and disable the entire plan.  I made my move.  You make yours.  Shit. Please move back, miss.  I gotta get back ASAP.  Whatever.  Look, I I gotta come back down now.  My computer's on the fritz.  Let's go to the meet, DJ.  If I mis-typed one command, hit one wrong key,  the cell doors won't open.  And we both know what that means.  Did I make a mistake?  No.  I don't make mistakes.  One minute till Vera.  For all his insane, inhumane ideas,  he does understand the world,  the wild savagery of the world.  What you need your piece for, bro?  Boy Wonder says he's opening all the cells.  If some fool tries to rush us,  I wanna be ready.  Hey-o, what the shit?  Power surge. Caused by all cell doors opening at the same time.  What, what about security, sirens?  The jail's network will show all cells locked and closed.  Alarms are silent for two minutes.  Run, run, run!  Yes! Yes. This shit right here!  This shit tastes better than any pussy I ever had!  Whoo!  DJ, shoot the cocksucker.  My own brother.  That's what the universe asked of me.  To be my brother's keeper.  Like Cain after Abel,  I'll be a fugitive and wander on the earth.  A brave fugitive,  a brave wanderer.  Look how you helped me.  That's the kind of bravery I been talking about.  But, but now  Now, I want you to look at Isaac.  Look!  Dead proof.  My operation is over.  So go on, crash it, burn it to the ground.  Doesn't matter.  I'm gone.  A spirit.  One with all the heavens, all existence.  Shayla!  Where is she?  Keys, yo.  Told you you'd get her back, bro.  You just didn't realize  She was with you the whole time.  Happy New Year 2016 - New Year, New Color ;-)
1 So? What do we got?  Terry Colby was involved in the cover-up  of the Washington Township toxic waste scandal  What do we need to prove our case?  Someone who was there when the decision was made  to falsify chemical waste intel.  Get the hell away from my home, get away from my home!  Elliot, what is going on with you?  I cannot help you if you keep me in the dark.  We got problems.  The Dark Army is bailing.  It's not over.  We'll find a way. Just not tonight.  How do you not blow your brains out married to him?  You wanna watch me piss, too?  Scott, a misunderstanding.  Happy to pull my dick out for you.  Elliot.  Where is she?  Told you you'd get her back, bro.  Happy New Year 2016 - New Year, New Color ;-)  Shit.  Shit!  Open up!  I'm bleeding all over the hallway.  It's a life or death situation out here.  Look, I know you're in there. I just saw you go in.  Open up.  I'm lo  Well, are you just gonna stand there?  Get me a glass of water, dummy.  Can I use this? Thanks.  My niece gave him to me.  I haven't even named him yet.  God. Do you know the pressure of an ecstatic six-year-old?  I mean, I kill that thing and her whole world  collapses.  I like what you did with the place.  Hmm. Yeah, nice setup.  I still like mine better, though.  Yeah, let me know if you want a top-shelf hook-up.  Actually, now that I have you,  will you help me move a dresser,  Mr. Muscles?  Okay, come on. Just come on.  Man 'N' Van is getting way too legit.  It used to just be like drummers  with their moms' Honda Odysseys.  Now it's an actual company in Queens.  I mean, the guys  are literally men in vans.  I'd buy morphine from you  If you could also get me Suboxone.  Pictures of you, that I almost believe that.  Well, um, it's pretty much  impossible to get Suboxone.  My supplier doesn't have it.  I saw this song live once. It was so rad.  Don't you just love hearing your favorite songs in person,  like half-deaf from the speakers,  everyone going nuts around you?  No.  Direct. I respect that.  I just hate concerts.  Lots of people.  and I ran to your heart to be near  You don't like people, huh?  Not most of them, no.  Okay.  Well, so, by that rationale,  if you were to really like one person,  it would be, like, considered an aberration, or  an abnormality or  Special, even.  I guess.  Well, I aim for special,  so challenge accepted.  all your courage, to let it all go  I wish we already knew each other.  Would make this feel less awkward.  You really feel awkward right now?  Yeah.  Well, then, I wish we knew each other too then.  Remembering, you fallen into my arms  Oh, yikes. I'm, um, I'm late.  Meeting the girls for drinks.  Oh, um, I'm Shayla.  Elliot.  You were always so lost in the dark  You know, I do know of a guy who sells Suboxone.  He's supposed to be a fucking psychopath,  but if you want I can call him.  You might be worth a psychopath.  I don't know. Maybe.  Oh, and, keep the fish, you filthy animal.  Slip away quietly  Open my eyes  But I never see anything  If only I'd thought of the right words  I could have held on to your heart  Sorry I haven't talked to you in a while.  I mean, it's only been a month,  which I guess in the grand scheme of things isn't that long.  Isn't our life like a blip in the cosmic calendar or something?  So, that's Shayla.  A blip. Not even.  Here one blip, gone the next.  Makes me hate myself that I've already gotten used  to the idea of her not being here.  In a year, I'll maybe think about her every once in a while.  Then, she'll become an anecdote.  A thing to say. "I knew a girl that died."  With the added bonus of, "She died because of me."  Maybe I should hate myself.  Here are the last two forms.  She's getting rid of me  in case you're still trying to figure that out.  - Once I - Sign on the bottom.  Then I'll deliver it to the court.  And in two weeks' time, you'll receive an official release from the mandate.  That second form means  that we've been sitting in this room for a year.  Over 52 hours of Krista's voice bouncing around this room.  She thinks she's a wasted echo.  Maybe she is.  I wonder how much time I've spent not listening to her in here.  I'm worried about you, Elliot. I really want you to keep coming here.  We've got a lot more work to do.  She wants more from me, but she doesn't believe in me.  I tried because I believe some part inside of you  wants to do this right.  You? Are you on her side?  You should clean your sockets.  Sounds too good to be true, but I'll bite.  What's the ask?  Given my client has information that could help your client's case,  we want the meeting restricted to her, Colby, and myself.  And we want it conducted off-record.  Antara, come on.  My client won't accept your presence.  Our client pays for ours.  Then you're duty-bound to present him  with any legitimate offer of beneficial evidence.  Of course.  Give us something truly legitimate and beneficial.  You won't even tell us what the hell your client has.  Seth, we've been sitting on opposite sides of the negotiating table  for two decades.  I'm not some joker, come out of the woodwork,  trying to scam Colby for millions.  I'm giving him the only glimmer of hope he's had.  We'll pass along your offer. Thanks for your time.  Lloyd said you wanted to see me.  Uh  Look, I appreciate your commitment to this job.  I really do.  But I don't see how you've plowed through  these last few weeks. So  I want to offer you some time off.  Just some time to I don't need time off. I'm good.  Uh, one more thing.  Look  I'm so sorry she was taken away, Elliot,  but don't let her death close you off entirely.  Find someone you can be your honest self with.  Okay?  I remember when I was a kid, I got into web design  by ripping off sites I liked.  All you had to do was "view source" on your browser  and there it was, the code.  You could copy-paste it,  modify it a little,  put your name on it, and like that, it was your site.  View source.  What if we had that for people?  Would people really wanna see?  Find someone to be your honest self with?  Bullshit.  Really good advice. Thanks.  I quote, "The US contingent  "of the hacker group, fsociety, has remained quiet  "since the upheaval inflicted upon the world's largest multinational conglomerate.  "Secretary of Homeland Security Jeh Johnson  "released a statement today stating that  "These groups lack the resources and knowledge of the US cell  "to successfully mount an attack."  End quote.  Yeah, so?  You gotta get the Dark Army back.  Dude, I've been trying.  How many times do you want me to hack him?  Do you know how hard hacking a hacker is?  Cisco switches OSs like all the time  Darlene, we need one meeting.  Yeah, well, I've been using Cisco's handle  to send requests for the past month.  I got nothing.  He's slower than me, but not by much.  If we can talk to Whiterose directly  Whiterose? Whiterose? Really?  Okay, if If the guy even exists,  and that's a big if,  no way he's meeting you face-to-face.  For all we know, this dude's Whiterose.  Excuse me?  Are you Whiterose?  A likely story.  Besides, the tape backups  already shipped to all the new Steel Mountain facilities,  and we still haven't found a way around that.  I got a plan in motion.  And God's laughing.  This is all I have left of her.  I will miss her.  I need to wipe again.  So, if you scroll to the next page,  you'll see the summary of capital budgets for purchasing and operations.  We get it, the goddamn earning reports are gonna look good come Monday.  Our aim is to facilitate bill payment  and heighten financial security.  So, that's an extra 2%.  You know, if we hadn't turned our profits around, I was gonna leave.  No way.  Where? Don't tell me Apple.  Google.  Don't buy it.  I got a blowjob from the hiring executive  on the Googleplex volleyball court.  Oh, she was hot,  had a Marissa Mayer thing going on too.  Hot execs started as hot assistants  who fucked their way to the top  twice as fast as the rest of us.  You know something screwed up?  I heard that some assistants, they're going gay to  move up the ladder.  I'll do you one better.  There's a special handful  of pathetically desperate execs going cock jockey.  - No. Oh, my God. Mmm-hmm.  Hey, Dwight, I meant to ask,  how are your children?  Hell if I know. Sent 'em off to, uh, Lawrence.  I think Julia likes art.  Oh, well, can't win 'em all.  Lawrence?  You'll never be able to afford that tuition on unemployment.  - Sorry? - You're fired!  You two, as well.  I'm making sure you all receive the minimum severance packages.  Mr. Wellick, uh, I don't understand.  What did we do?  Nothing.  - And I've took - You said you would update me.  I needed to discuss our situation with the state's attorney.  Thanks for coming in, Roy.  Yeah.  I think you should have a seat.  Colby's lawyers called 30 minutes ago.  They wanted a promise of total immunity  before the meeting, which I obtained from the man you just met.  So, yes, Colby agreed.  With a caveat.  I can't be in the room. You have to go in alone.  Look, you made a ballsy move.  But you doing what you're about to do  Entering the home of a very powerful man  with a lot at stake and asking him for something,  that's always a dangerous proposition.  So, one last time  Are you sure you wanna do this?  Aw, shit, man.  I thought you was one of them high schoolers  stole my mom's chaise lounge.  As heartbreaking as it is to hear that,  you're gonna have to put that off.  We're getting everybody back together. Come on.  Aw, man. Not this time. I'm out.  You can't be out. We need you.  Look, man, I got a new set of people depending on me, okay?  Clients out the wazoo, so, you know  I mean good luck. And tell the kids I said hi.  What is this? What are you doing here?  Well, I figured out how to insert THC's  genetic information code into yeast cells.  Tripled my earning speed.  Plants need weeks to develop. Microbes need days.  So, what, you got a Bath & Body Works  bottling facility in your backyard?  Try it.  The THC level is borderline in that blend,  and the lavender doesn't mess with the high.  You just smooth it on your skin.  So, you're rejecting a revolution  in favor of aroma profiles?  What a waste of potential.  - Look, man, I know I got a good brain.  Besides  What was our little project in the end, anyway?  Wasted shit if you ask me.  Ah, now you're borderline pissing me off.  Is that a fact?  And what exactly are you gonna do  if I decide to cross that border?  Look at my face, Romero.  You and I both know I'm crazy.  Not the cute kind, either. I'm talking  Crazy, crazy!  You lost touch.  You forgot the feeling of spilling blood on the battlefield  but winning the fight.  I didn't wanna hurt you, Romero.  I love you, man.  I just wanted you to come back to the arcade with me  so we could change the world together.  I am clearly too crazy for you to say no to.  Bam!  The look on your face, priceless.  Goddamn lunatic.  You gave me your word when we started this thing that you'd finish it.  I gave you my word what I'd do if you didn't.  See you back at the arcade.  Good, I see the girl got you tea.  Well, let's get started.  How much do you want?  Write your number.  You can ask me anything you want,  but I promise you, at the end of the day,  money will always be better than what you're looking for.  Mr. Colby  Did you attend the executive board meetings during 1993?  Were you in the room  when the decision was made to ignore the treatment  of hazardous waste in Washington Township?  I have information which can help you,  if you answer my question.  I don't know what you're talking about.  If you agree to testify against the executives  who covered up the illegal  dumping of epoxy resin waste,  I will testify that  I broke chain of custody  with the .DAT file  central to your case.  You're that hot little thing that came by here a month ago.  The girl from Allsafe.  I remember. Yeah.  Okay  I'm gonna answer your question.  But here's what I need from you first.  So, I'm gonna pull down my pants.  And then, I'm gonna need you to take that pouty mouth of yours  and swallow up my balls.  Now  They're big and hairy, especially the left one,  so you're really gonna have to,  I don't know, squish 'em up to get 'em inside there.  You're probably gonna have to do one cheek at a time.  But then, once they're all warm and snug in there,  I want you to repeat your question to me  as clearly as you can.  Then, and only then,  am I willing to answer.  What do you say?  If you don't take this deal,  you'll become like me.  Sure, maybe you'll live in this house.  Maybe you'll have money.  But even if your expensive lawyers  find a way to get you off,  people will still think that you're guilty.  Losing everyone's respect  The respect of people you know  and the people you don't,  it's a shitty feeling  Trust me.  I'll have the girl let me out.  Flipper.  Is she microchipped?  Okay.  Very good.  Housekeeping done.  Now, on to the real business.  Has your dog ever eaten trash before?  No.  I mean, not Not that I remember.  Well, lucky for your bank account,  the piece is small enough to pass on its own.  Unfortunately, though, it's large enough  to send her puking all over your apartment.  So, I would crate her for a few days  and monitor her.  She won't know what you're doing is good for her.  You were right.  I was only trying to prove  Colby's lawyers just called. He wants to talk.  Get back there.  It's a little early in the morning to be nerding out,  don't you think?  How long?  - I knew if I asked you, they'd - How long?  A couple weeks.  And you had the balls to ask for Whiterose, with my shit.  It's like you wanna get us both killed.  What happened? He responded?  You know  You didn't have to make me look like a shitty foot soldier.  Nobody would ever even know that  You got rid of my box and found the IP.  Then you joined their channel with my handle.  We're so done.  I don't wanna see you again.  But you fools actually got your wish.  I don't know why, but the meeting's actually gonna be on.  I'd tell you to be careful,  but I know that's the last thing you're gonna be.  My lawyers are looking over the paperwork.  - Does that mean that - Exactly what I said.  I asked you back here to make sure that you can pull off your testimony.  To make sure that this chain of custody story of yours is straight.  I can't afford any trips.  I'm not going to trip.  So what  What's in this for you, anyway?  I know you hate me.  So, what, you're gonna just let me off scot-free?  What do you get out of this?  Earlier, I asked you a question.  You never answered it.  If I'm agreeing to testify in your case, then,  yes, you know, I attended several meetings.  Tell me about the one when they  decided to ignore the leak.  I'm I'm not sure what you're asking.  What was the meeting like when you decided this?  I get it.  You wanna know, like, what was it like?  Like, um, did we all have cigars  and laugh hysterically as we signed the evil documents?  Is that what you pictured?  Well, I'm sorry, hon, you see, the world doesn't work like that.  Tell me. Tell me how it works.  Uh, Jesus, um, all right.  All right. Let's see.  January, '93  Well, my secretary then was Elaine.  So, Elaine brought us a platter of shrimp cocktail  to tide us to dinner, which pissed us off.  Because we just had a platter at the holiday party.  Jim opened the bar.  Now Jim was a real piece of work.  I mean half-pansy, half-mafia.  First sign of a tight decision,  he'd be chain-smoking, down a river of scotch.  Uh  You know, it rained.  It rained. I remember that.  Yeah.  So  You were drunk,  eating shrimp cocktail,  and it was raining when you decided my mother would die?  That's why.  So, people like you won't keep sitting in rooms together.  Did any of it ever give you or anyone pause,  when you made those decisions?  Yeah.  Yeah.  Sure.  But, um  But then you go home. And, uh  And you have dinner, you know. And  And you wake up the next morning.  Here's to a man who has a bright future at our company.  A man you all know.  A man who's gonna change this company for the good.  A man smart enough to marry a woman every bit his equal.  Our new Chief Technology Officer,  Scott Knowles.  Thank you.  Thank you. Thank you, Phillip.  Welcome. Here we go. Thank you.  - It's great to be here. - And we're off. We're off.  - Thanks, Phillip. - You're very welcome.  - Congratulations. - Congratulations.  Yeah. Come and say hello.  - Congratulations, Scott. - Joseph. How are you?  Thank you.  Tyrell. Nice to see you.  Is it?  I hear you shared our moment with your husband.  Oh, come on, that was over a month ago.  Don't tell me you're still sore.  Hmm, I sense some defeat.  Well, I consider myself, at the very least, reprimanded.  How disappointing.  One tiny curveball and you gave up.  Miss?  Thank you.  I should have known that you were nothing more than a bold entrance.  Are you saying you don't crave a bold entrance?  Every time? Over and over.  Sustained.  Meet me tonight.  I'm a little busy.  Come to my office, now.  Are you really asking me that?  I don't recall phrasing it as a question, no.  Fine, then I just won't show up.  Then the roof.  Take the back stairwell.  The cameras have been out since March.  No one will know.  Well, you just made a long day longer.  I know that Allsafe will have to fire me.  But testifying was the right thing to do.  I have worked my ass off to take care of you.  And of every person in this company.  Do you know what that means?  You've been a great boss, Gideon.  Once this confession goes public,  no one will want to do business with us.  The company will go under.  I couldn't let Colby take the fall for something that I did.  Oh, come on. You and I both know you didn't break chain of custody.  I did, and I feel terrible  Angela! Please.  Stop lying.  You do this,  all these people go down.  All their families  that rely on what this company provides for them.  So, this is where the rabbit hole leads?  Gotta be honest, I half-expected you not to show up.  And I half-expected you to be a tattle-tale.  So you are sore.  Oh, come on, you intrigued me,  I intrigued back.  Can't we just be more straightforward?  Well, that's no fun, but if you insist  I just came up here to see if you were really as gullible as you seem.  My husband's downstairs getting the job that you want,  and you're up here trying fuck to me.  Now, whether that's you  being straightforward or a game,  either way, it's played pretty poorly, if you ask me.  Hmm. Again, I asked no question.  All I can tell you is, you need this.  'Cause you're dissatisfied.  Scott plans on firing you  and you are clinging on to any chance you can get.  You seem desperate.  I know it hurts  You know  I'd quench that thirst  I can treat you You say you're lonely  I say you'll think about it Hey.  Hey, what are you Get off me!  'Cause you're the only  Stop!  One who resonates  Flying like a screaming falcon  Only way to do each other  Pull out the incisor  Give me two weeks you won't recognize her  Mouth open you're high  Higher than a motherfucker  Dreamin' of you as high  We connected with Whiterose.  The plan is back on.  I could bullshit you.  Tell you you're the only person  who can fill the exact void we have at fsociety.  The truth is, I need this group back together.  Have you ever considered which part of our scheme motivates you?  When the Dark Army bailed,  you didn't care if pushing the button would bring an economic revolution.  You want momentary anarchy.  The others?  Mobley likes palling around.  Romero wants a whiff of fame.  Those reasons depress me.  What's the part you want?  You don't care.  My parents were born in Iran.  They came here like everybody else,  for freedom,  but my dad works 60-hour weeks  to determine tax loopholes  for a millionaire art dealer.  My mom, she ran up loans into five digits  to get an online degree.  They won't shut up about how great America is.  But they're gonna die in debt,  doing things they never wanted to do.  There are how many billion people in this world?  7.3.  Somehow you and I landed together,  doing something impossible if we were alone.  Not to mention, at the right point in history,  with the right resources.  We have what we've worked for,  right there for the taking.  We just need each other to see this through.  You come any closer, I'm calling the cops.  Hi, Operator?  I'd like to report an emergency.  I placed a malicious CD in my work computer,  and now this guy at the gym is saying hi to me.  I'm going home.  I need you to do something for me.  Call the girl who wants to be involved, okay?  Her name is Angela Moss.  - Let me give you her phone number - Listen, pussy.  If you don't do what I say,  then the giant shit storm that rains turds later  will leave a trail of clouds in the sky  spelling out your name.  Elliot.  I wasn't expecting you.  I'm here for my appointment.  Well, you can slip in before my first patient.  You told me I should tell you the truth.  Yes.  Everything I say will still be protected?  And confidential?  I've been lying to you.  I don't take my pills.  But you don't either.  Your refill frequency for Ativan  doesn't match your prescription divided by the dosage.  This morning,  you bought a tall hazelnut latte,  paid for it on your Evil Corp card.  And by text you justified the indulgence  to your sister because Evil Corp gives you double rewards.  But those points only accumulate on travel expenses.  You're not good with money.  On paper,  your Thursday 2:00, Marilyn O'Brien,  is your doppelganger.  I think  You're encouraging her to leave her husband  because you're tired of being dumped.  You like porn, especially anal.  Whether you like it yourself, I don't know.  That's not relevant to me.  You've told your best friend, Jennifer, that  you wish your mom would die.  I sometimes watch you on your webcam.  You cry sometimes,  just like me  because you're lonely.  I dont just hack you, Krista.  I hack everyone.  My friends, co-workers.  But I've helped a lot of people.  I want  A way out of loneliness.  Just like you.  Is that what you wanted to hear?  Happy New Year 2016 - New Year, New Color ;-)
1 The redundant backups, their Eastern data center in China  The Dark Army is covering us on that.  We can go now.  If we move forward and they don't  China still holds all the redundant information.  It will be pointless.  If we can talk to Whiterose directly  No way he's meeting you face-to-face.  You fools actually got your wish.  I don't know why, but the meeting's actually gonna be on.  I'd tell you to be careful but I know that's the last thing you're gonna be.  I had the sys admin check that server again. Of course there was nothing.  I have no idea what there was to even be suspicious about.  Why do you have my work ID?  I placed a malicious CD in my work computer.  I need you to do something for me.  Our new Chief Technology Officer, Scott Knowles.  Meet me tonight on the roof.  The cameras have been out since March. No one will know.  Stop!  Happy New Year 2016 - New Year, New Color ;-)  What if this all went away?  The city. The money.  All Of it.  What? Like a zombie apocalypse or something?  More like a revolution.  Last time we hooked up, we agreed to check politics at the door.  There's no middle anymore. It's just rich and poor.  Okay. This shit is way too heavy for me this early.  I gotta go to work. Right.  Solving the world's problems one spreadsheet at a time.  Hey, it's either suits like me or the government.  And we all know how well they handle things.  Why can't the world just take care of itself?  Because the world is filled with stupid people.  And I get paid a lot to be smart.  Hey  There's not just the rich and the poor.  There's you in the middle somewhere, the consummate survivor.  I'm in a ballet class right now.  No, Ollie, I can't talk to you about this right now.  I don't care, Ollie.  I don't care who you ran into or what he said.  Sorry.  Tell me you're not getting back together with him.  Jesus, no. No. Just leftover work stuff.  Have you talked to Elliot?  Yesterday.  Seems like he's pulling himself together, but you know how he is.  Feels like I'm always worried about him, you know? Yeah.  - He's had a shitty month. - Or 20 years,  - take your pick. - Then, why are we the ones  that always end up so stressed?  Try waking up in your childhood bedroom,  then taking Jersey Transit for two hours  to make a 7:00 ballet class in the city.  Well, silver lining, you get to see moi.  All right, everyone. First position.  I hurt Krista. I don't feel good about that.  I hope you're not mad at me.  But you have to admit she's just like everyone else.  Too afraid to peek over their walls, for fear of what they might see.  Not me. That's what I do.  I look.  Did you get everybody back?  Tell him to follow the proper commands or the sequence won't initiate.  Using the back door, we planted with our Raspberry Pi.  Jesus Christ, man. How long have you been sitting on all this?  I installed a patch four weeks ago and I've been monitoring it daily.  No rest for the wicked.  I wanted to make sure it was all updated at the Steel Mountain locations  before the meeting with Whiterose. - Yeah.  These AirDream guys are so dumb.  Who has all their thermostats phone home to the same network?  I'll sync up all five locations so they heat at exactly the same rate.  No offense, but I'll handle that. You should take care of the alarms,  so there's no signal of the temp raise in any vaults.  No, reroute AirDream's traffic.  Make sure to erase any and all signs of our activity.  Where were you? - I need a word.  I gotta get to work. - Not sure that's wise.  What the hell is that? - They're following me.  And they're probably following you too.  They were on the subway. Okay, Cisco's warned me about them.  These guys are dangerous, Elliot.  The Whiterose meet might not go down the way we want it to.  Yeah, well, I don't even know how to use a gun.  Besides, I'm not even sure I'm the one they wanna meet with.  You're definitely the one they want to meet with.  And when you do, you need to be careful.  I'm serious, Elliot.  What are you doing? I'm calling myself from your phone,  that way we have each other's number.  Wait, Darlene. We don't do that.  That's to protect fsociety. Okay, but we need to protect each other right now.  Lose Darlene's number. It's a rule for a reason.  Don't worry, I'm not gonna use it.  She's right about one thing.  You're the one they wanna talk to.  We can't afford any distractions.  He's so obvious, why don't you just kill me now?  - Oh! - Jesus, Blake! Were you fucking tip-toeing?  God damn it, look what you've done.  Watch where you're going!  But you  - Good morning. - Not now, Elizabeth. Hold all calls.  Cancel any meetings. I'm busy today.  But, Mr. Wellick.  Gideon Goddard is here to see you.  I'm sorry. He was very persistent. He wouldn't leave.  Okay.  Okay. No, that's fine.  Thank you. Uh, do you want me to, uh  Oh, yes. I'd love some coffee.  One of my employees  confessed to breaking chain of custody  with the Colby .DAT file.  Unfortunately, this admission  will render the evidence inadmissible,  and Colby free of charges. Now before you say anything, I want to assure you  that Allsafe has doubled its efforts to find the hackers,  whether it be reconfirming Colby's involvement,  or finding the real perpetrators.  We've air gapped your private network,  implemented a honeypot, reconfigured all firewalls,  - and systematically - Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait.  A honeypot? For what?  Uh, a specific server involved in the last fsociety attack.  CS30.  I know we checked it out,  but if there's even a chance  the hackers are still in the network,  the honeypot will ensure  that they can't cause any damage.  They'll log into the decoy server we've set up thinking they're on your main network.  And I'm personally keeping tabs on all traffic.  So you have our full attention.  Well, I appreciate your transparency.  Well, so, you understand then?  Of course. Good.  In fact, I'd like to look over your findings,  especially this server.  So, please send me the research.  Of course. Of course. Yeah.  Well, thank you again for seeing me.  Mr. Wellick?  Mr. Wellick?  I specifically asked not to be disturbed.  I know, but, um  What is it?  The police.  It's awful.  - What about the police? - They found a body on the roof.  A body? Who?  They're not saying, but detectives came by. They want to speak with you.  With me?  They're questioning everyone who was at the reception last night.  Clearly this is tragic, but unfortunately work goes on.  But don't you think you should - Tell them,  they can set an appointment.  I'd be happy to speak with them then.  Oh, and Elizabeth,  I need you to connect me with the Dulles Server Farm.  I'll take it on my mobile.  And the file shares? 'Cause client data is inaccessible until we're back online.  Jumping on that now.  Check the logs on the ASA firewall.  I want a full report.  Ollie, sales.  All appointments at Allsafe  are canceled until further notice.  Word of this cannot get out.  All right, let's get to it.  This hack is far from devastating.  They already own us.  They're not going after anything valuable.  This is more of a distraction.  But what are they trying to distract us from?  Hey, bro.  Always the chatterbox.  You're sweating.  Oh. yeah?  Yeah, yeah, maybe a little.  Been running around.  Um, look, I sort of need you to handle something for me.  What've they got you doing here?  I'm trying to reverse engineer the malware.  Okay, um, I'm gonna need you to stop doing that  and take these corrupted drives over to  Blank's Disk Recovery on 36th and Fifth.  Why me? Get one of the IT guys.  Everyone is swamped, Elliot.  Dude, this isn't, like, a debate.  I've always wanted things to be cool between us, but  I outrank you.  So  Here are the drives.  Your appointment is at 2:00.  You cannot be late.  In fact, um, how about you leave right now?  It's only 12:00.  Elliot, bro.  Just, just do me this solid, okay?  He wasn't just stressed.  He was scared.  Let's see what he's hiding.  What does Angela have to do with this?  Well  Why didn't you tell me?  And say what?  "Hey, Elliot, there's a bunch of nude pics of me that some asshole wants to leak online?"  I could've helped. You weren't around.  Yeah.  I've kind of had a rough month.  I'm sorry.  Tell me what happened.  We were being pressured.  By who?  Some guy.  He gave Ollie a CD that infected his laptop,  stole his pictures, his emails, and browser cache.  He said to install the disk at Allsafe or he would leak everything online.  It was a while ago. I thought he forgot about us.  I was right, the hack was a distraction.  This is about me. This is the meeting.  You should've come to me.  I told you, you weren't there.  You're never there anymore.  Something is going on with you, Elliot.  You have not been the same the past couple of months,  and this happened before Shayla.  You're wrong. You're lying.  You don't talk to me anymore.  Just tell me what to do here,  because the only solution I can think of is to give up.  God, say something.  You're right.  We don't talk anymore.  It's so strange.  I really miss us.  Why is that strange?  Because I never thought I'd have to.  Hackers.  We inherently trust no one, including each other.  I'll never be able to tell her.  There will always be this divide,  my wall that she can't look over.  And she knows it.  Trust issues.  The Dark Army has taken extraordinary steps  to make sure this meeting is exactly how they want it.  Is that why the infamous Whiterose is such a legend?  Because he's more paranoid than the rest of us?  I'm Elliot Alderson.  A Faraday cage.  A room specifically designed to prevent electromagnetic interference.  No radio. No signal.  No Wi-Fi. Nothing to hack.  I think I'm here to see you.  Am I supposed to follow you?  Are you just going to stand there?  Or do you want to hand me those drives?  Mmm, mmm, mmm.  This meeting has started.  I manage my time very carefully, Mr. Alderson.  Each beep indicates one minute of my time that has passed.  I have allotted you no more than three minutes.  Are you really gonna do that?  I suggest you pick better topics of conversation.  I have 17 more items on my agenda today.  The Evil Corp hack. We should go through with it this time.  You are turning out to be a grave disappointment.  We were ready. We had everything set to go.  Dwelling is so inefficient.  Hey, you pulled out last time.  Wasting more time telling me things I already know, tsk, tsk, tsk.  But we were ready. That is the third time that you have expressed that.  She's trolling me.  You have not advanced this conversation.  Do you intend to? - Since last month,  Evil Corp has moved its tapes to - Five backup facilities,  and you have a plan to take them all down?  Yes. Finally, you have communicated something.  So are you ready to do this or not?  You are the one who is not ready.  It was you who failed all along.  What you lacked was focus.  You strayed from the hack to target Terry Colby.  This opened a vulnerability.  Suspicion. Specifically by Gideon Goddard.  That's why you hacked Allsafe.  To monitor his activities.  And that's when we discovered  that he turned your infected server  into a honeypot.  Oh, 60 seconds and this meeting will be over.  Wait. The concept of "waiting" bewilders me.  There are always deadlines, there are always ticking clocks.  That's why you must manage your time.  I'll find a way to remove the honeypot.  Until 16 seconds ago,  you were not aware there was a honeypot.  This does not inspire confidence. - Wait.  There's that word again. We'll take care of it.  You know, you could have told us about the honeypot weeks ago.  Every hacker has her fixation. You hack people, I hack time.  So you should know that when I set a timeline, there's a reason.  You have 50 hours and 23 minutes.  At that point when all parties are ready we will initiate the hack.  We'll do it.  - Maybe next time - Understand something, Mr. Alderson.  After I leave, you will never see me again.  There are very people in my life that I have enough time to see  more than once and you are not one of them.  Trust me.  That's not going to matter.  Why are you doing all of this?  The hack?  Why are you working with us?  50 hours and 20 minutes left.  I need to figure this out.  Gideon's been spying on me the whole time.  Honeypot service order. Shit.  I gotta do that now. Security token.  Gideon's phone. I need his phone.  50 hours and 19 minutes left.  Damn. She infected me with her time paranoia.  We're all living in each other's paranoia.  You definitely can't argue that.  Is that why everyone tries to avoid each other?  I need to calm down.  I wish I could be an observer like you.  Then I could think more calmly.  This is comfortable.  Less stressful.  In fact, I feel like I can see everything,  know everything this way.  Hmm  Do you know more than me?  That wouldn't be fair.  My imaginary friend knowing more than me.  So what would you do now?  We need a distraction to get Gideon's phone.  Darlene?  I need you to do something for me.  She can help.  My boss at Allsafe, Gideon.  Sometimes it's hard to listen to an explanation.  Even when it's from myself.  Especially when it's from myself.  It would be so much easier to only pay attention when I needed to.  Yeah. To just  Arrive at the conclusion.  Is that what you do?  One hundred large MMS files to Gideon's phone, drained it.  Corporate greed is a trickle-down desire  that reaches even the bottom of the food chain.  And for what? Wealth?  What the shit? - Power?  It's a pathetic fable and you,  Allsafe, are a defender of this pitiful avarice  Holy shit. Fsociety knows us.  But your sweet dream is over, and your nightmare is about to begin.  We are warned that those who are complicit  What the hell's happening now? those who aide the tyrant,  those who accept the tyranny,  have no place in the new order.  The distraction is momentary.  Hopefully all I need.  They will know our justice and we will show no mercy.  Gideon Goddard,  you are a lackey to your corporate overlords.  Someone shut this off.  Defending those that bleed the innocent.  Serving them. Slave to master.  It's ignoring the remote.  They hacked our Smart TV.  Congratulations, Mr. Goddard.  It's posting to our website. And YouTube.  You will soon be finished.  In 90 seconds this code will change.  If I don't log in with it on my computer before then,  I'll lose everything to time.  We are exposing your role to the world.  No, let it finish.  And the world is very angry.  Sixty seconds. Whiterose was right.  We run from one deadline to the next.  Where's Elliot?  What are you doing?  I was working on the local backups.  Why weren't you in there with us?  I was worried about the - It just doesn't add up.  All these events keep happening  around your appearance, your disappearance.  Gideon - Forget it.  I don't want to hear it.  Every member in this company  stood in there watching the single worst thing that's happened to Allsafe,  and where are you? At your cubicle?  Doing what?  Gideon, I hate to interrupt you, but - No, not now, Ollie.  Evil Corp's on the phone.  I'll be back. We're not finished here.  I know, you thought I didn't put the code in time,  but I had to hide it quickly before Gideon saw it.  Sorry.  Have I told you what I saw when I hacked Gideon?  When I peeked into his secrets?  I saw a good, honest man.  Gideon was wrong.  I am finished here.  I'm not good for him or this place.  He was only protecting his people.  But me?  I'm doing this to protect everyone.  It seems you've been very busy lately.  I have to know what you're planning.  We were meant to be allies.  We might just want the same thing.  And I need to be involved.  I'm pretty positive you're dead wrong about that, my friend.  I don't think there's anything we could possibly agree on.  I don't know what game you're playing,  but I suggest you cut the bullshit.  If there's nothing else, I think we're done here.  Aren't you forgetting that I know your dirty little secret?  There are people close to you that wouldn't be happy if they knew what I know.  We're both too smart to allow pettiness to dictate our actions.  We're better than that.  Weigh the pros and cons.  Do what you need to do,  but as soon as the tabulations are over with,  you'll know that telling anyone about that does neither one of us any good.  In fact, you'll realize that  the only thing to do in your position when it comes to me,  is nothing.  Good evening, Mr. Wellick.  I'm Detective Quattlander, this is Detective Jones.  As I know you're aware,  we were hoping to speak with you at your office today,  but your assistant said you're out.  What's this about?  We're investigating a murder that occurred  at your husband's place of employment, ma'am.  May we please come in?  A murder?  Ma'am, do you mind speaking in English, please?  I think this is inappropriate,  you coming to my house like this,  upsetting my wife.  - I will be in my office tomorrow. - Mr. Wellick,  as you can imagine, this is very time-sensitive.  We just need to ask you a few questions.  Actually, both of you,  since you were both in attendance at the reception last night.  Yeah, I can assure you,  we have no information whatsoever.  It'll only take a moment.  And you both did know the deceased, Sharon Knowles.  You did know her, yes?  Sharon Knowles?  That's terrible.  Um, yes, yes, we did know her.  Please, come in.  Have a seat. Can I get you anything? Coffee, tea?  Coffee would be great.  Tea, herbal if possible, please.  Mr. Wellick.  What time did you last see Sharon Knowles last night?  Mr. Wellick?  Are you okay?  Ahhh!  Joanna?  Uh, I think the baby's coming. We gotta get her to the hospital.  Okay?  How'd it go with the climate control hack?  Handled.  I happen to be really smart and good at things.  Not like you give a shit.  We should celebrate then.  In 43 hours,  exactly,  our server will no longer be a honeypot,  and that rootkit you wrote,  will take down Evil Corp.  We did it, Darlene.  It's gonna happen.  We're really doing this?  Whoo!  Oh, my God.  Be happy.  You did this.  You did it.  Just like that, Elliot, you're gonna change the world.  We did this.  I would love to take credit on this one.  But I can't.  No, really, this was you.  You are seriously  the best person I know, you know that?  I love you so much.  Oh, my God, Elliot! What the fuck?  I'm sorry. What the hell is wrong with you?  I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I thought  I just  I'm sorry.  Oh, my God, Elliot.  Did you forget again?  Did you forget who I am?  What do you mean?  Forget what?  Elliot, I need you to tell me who you think I am.  What are you talking about?  Tell me right now.  What are you saying?  Elliot  I mean of course I did Didn't forget.  You're Darlene.  You're Darlene.  Elliot.  You're Darlene.  I know.  I know what she's going to say.  I'm your - Sister.  You're my sister.  Darlene and I'd hide in movie theaters all day.  Darlene would sing, Frre Jacques.  She rode her scooter in front of our house.  I'm crazy. I'm crazy. I'm crazy. I'm crazy.  She tried to run away in the third grade.  How come I didn't remember that?  We slept in the same bed when our mom was mean to us.  Why did I forget? I remember her voice.  How could I forget?  I'm crazy. I'm crazy.  I'm crazy. I'm crazy. I'm crazy.  Are you freaking out?  Tell me the truth.  Were you in on this the whole time?  Were you?  Think, God damn it, think.  How can I just forget her like that?  A whole person, a relationship.  Is this amnesia? What else am I not remembering?  I'm crazy. I should have stayed on the meds.  I'm crazy. I'm out of my mind.  I knew it. I should have never created you,  I should have listened to Krista.  I avoid myself.  Why?  I'm afraid.  Okay.  Afraid of what?  Finding too much, too little, nothing at all?  Do I even exist?  See me.  Elliot Alderson.  I am here.  Now I'm gone.  We have to hack  Me.  Nothing.  No identity.  I'm a ghost.  Did I erase myself?  I think we should talk.  Happy New Year 2016 - New Year, New Color ;-)
Exciting time in the world right now.  Exciting time.  If you agree to testify,  I will testify that I broke chain of custody with the .DAT file.  We've implemented a honeypot, CS30.  I'd like to look over your findings,  especially this server.  Detectives came by. They wanna speak with you.  They found a body on the roof.  And you both did know the deceased, Sharon Knowles?  Sharon Knowles?  I think the baby's coming.  We got to get her to the hospital.  Tell me about your father.  I remember I tried to hug him, tell him I'm sorry,  and he shoved me so hard, I fell backwards out the window.  On, my God, Elliot!  Did you forget again?  Did you forget who I am?  I'm your - Sister.  I think we should talk.  It hasn't happened since 1904,  the year John McGraw decided to take his bat and ball and go home.  Here we are 90 years later and I wanna get your thoughts  on what it was like to be without the 1994 World Series.  That's right. The 1994 World Series is canceled.  Mr. Robot.  Um, well, I'd recommend the Pentium 90.  They're lightning fast, and we've got some in stock now.  With an 800 megabyte hard drive,  you'll be all set.  Or we could you save you a few bucks and upgrade what you have.  Once we swap out that motherboard and hard drive,  um, you'll be better than new.  Why don't you, uh, bring it on by and we'll, we'll take a look.  Okay. Thank you. Bye-bye.  What happened? That new mouse not work out for you?  Your son. He stole money from me.  Uh, excuse me?  Your son stole money from me!  I pulled out my wallet, I specifically remembered I had three 20s.  And now I only have one.  I used one to pay for the mouse, and then I had two left.  Your son was standing right behind me  when I had my money out on the counter.  I Just calm down.  I'm sure there's an explanation for this.  I don't want an explanation!  The only thing I want from you is my money and a fucking apology!  There's no need for that. I'm just trying to figure it out.  Can you tell how much of a shit I give about that?  Ugh I don't have time for this.  Are you giving me my money or not?  Look, do the right thing here, guy.  Then, no.  Excuse me?  The answer is no.  Are you You being serious right now?  I can't help you.  You're really just gonna sit there and lie?  I should call the cops!  What  What an example you're setting.  I, learned my money,  and you're just teaching him how to steal.  You're a terrible father.  I'm gonna have to ask you to leave.  You're a nobody.  You're a middle-aged man  doing what my retarded nephew could do.  That's your life.  You know what? Keep your 20.  I'll just go to Best Buy from now on.  God.  Come on out.  Dad, I didn't do it.  Let me see it.  Timecop or Stargate?  What? 20 bucks ought to cover the both of us.  Pulp Fiction? Never heard of it.  You sure I can take you to that?  All right, get your jacket.  What?  How come I'm not in trouble?  Even though what you did was wrong,  you're still a good kid.  And that guy was a prick.  Sometimes that matters more.  Come on. Let's go. It starts in 15 minutes,  and I wanna get some popcorn. Come on.  Happy New Year 2016 - New Year, New Color ;-)  It's really him.  It's really you.  I haven't been to your apartment before.  It's nice.  A little messy  but that's not earth-shattering news.  You never really did like cleaning your room.  Jesus fucking Christ.  I can't believe it's really you.  I was beginning to wonder how long it was gonna take  before you recognized me.  Now, the fact that you've stopped recognizing Darlene, too, well  I gotta be honest, that's a little disconcerting.  - Argh! -  Why didn't you say anything?  Why didn't you tell me?  Okay, Elliot. - This whole time!  Elliot. You are not well.  I was trying to handle it gently.  Gently?  Gently?  Gently?  Is that what the last three months have been?  No.  It's been about us doing something important.  And that's what it still needs to be about.  You died.  You died.  You were dead!  I suggest you lower your voice.  Lower my voice?  You want me to lower my voice  after appearing at my door  20 years after your supposed death.  I think this is  a perfect fucking volume!  Elliot, you don't want them to hear us.  Especially after my impromptu visit from Tyrell Wellick last night.  Elliot, there are people out there  who do not want us to work together.  Is that why they've been following me?  Is that why?  Because of you?  Think about it.  You don't remember me, you don't remember your own goddamn sister.  You see that shrink, pop their pills.  They intentionally put you in this haze,  fog up whatever brain matter you have left in there  so you forget what they want you to forget.  They're trying to control you, Elliot.  They've been trying to control you all along.  This is crazy.  I'm crazy.  I'm crazy. You're crazy. This is crazy.  What are you talking about?  Who's trying to control me?  The people out there who don't want me alive.  The people who are afraid of us.  We have to be more careful now, more than ever.  And Darlene?  She knew about this?  Elliot, I will explain everything,  but right now, tonight, we have to stick to the plan.  Are you kidding me?  You want me to put this on hold?  Are you out of your goddamn mind?  It's not safe to discuss this here.  I don't give a shit!  Tell me what the fuck is going on.  All right. Come on, let's go.  Where?  You want answers?  Stop asking questions and follow me.  Oh, that's sweet, I I can't.  You're going too fast.  Trust me, I don't think that's the problem.  Hey, I know you didn't want to talk last night.  No, Harry, I I can't right now, I have to  Breathe and have some breakfast in bed with me.  Okay.  How are you enjoying anything like that?  Hmm.  Mmm.  Honey, I appreciate it, I  God, if you only knew.  Tell me. I would love to know.  They hacked us. You know that, it's all over the news.  Now, normally, a company can get through this,  but we're a cyber security company.  Can you appreciate how bad that is?  We're hanging on by our fingernails.  Uh, who knows?  Maybe we've already fallen off a cliff  and I'm still trying to grasp onto something.  I'm a failure.  Look at me.  Look at this person who loves you so much  he would die a happy man right now just 'cause he had this.  Us, sitting down, having breakfast.  I don't think failing looks like this.  Hmm?  Make sure you go through all those emails again.  Everything from '91 to '95.  And let's start building a table that cross-references our calendar.  Yes.  Hey! Good to see you.  Uh, you should be proud.  News of Colby's confession is breaking today.  So far, we are firing on all cylinders.  So, what's up?  I came to help out.  Yeah. Can we scan these and, uh, email the PDFs to me.  And copy Roy on them.  Shouldn't you be at work?  I quit.  Angela.  You can't work here.  Why not?  I gave up everything for this case.  I don't want you to.  I am not here to help you find purpose in your life.  If you need something to do, take a jewelry class.  But you can't work here.  After what I did,  I won't be able to find another job in tech.  I'm broke.  The lawsuit money won't come in for years.  Which is why you need to find something you can get.  But this is not it.  Not at this level, for what we're trying to do.  Hello?  John. Yeah, yeah, yeah. No, tell me.  Um, four?  No, no, no, no. We're not We're not going down that road.  Absolutely not.  It's not happening.  No, it's gonna be six or nothing.  Who is this?  It's me. I'm looking for Elliot.  He's not at work.  I think he's flipping out again.  What do you mean?  He tried to kiss me last night.  You're the one that found him last time he was like this.  I really need your help.  Okay. Where are you?  He's not here.  Let's keep thinking, then.  I have been.  This was our runaway hideout.  He always came here.  Okay.  Let's spitball together.  I can't help you.  What does that mean?  It means  I don't really know Elliot anymore.  He has gone psycho legit this time, Angela.  We are in a state of 911.  We just need to talk to him.  Yeah, well, he doesn't wanna talk back.  And if he does, it's usually with a bunch of lies.  We can't keep protecting him from himself, Darlene.  He has saved our asses multiple times,  and you're just gonna do him like this?  Why do you even care?  What is that supposed to mean?  It means you guys were never that close.  In fact  He's been doing just fine until you moved back to the city.  Why are you even here?  Why have you and Elliot been spending so much time together?  Okay. You need to back off, babe.  He is my brother and I'm just trying to help.  That requires no explanation.  You don't wanna tell me what's really going on here, that's fine.  But then stop asking me for my help.  I think we're good.  You remember this?  Of course I do.  I think it's reasonable for me to confirm given your  I even remember my game.  I'd calculate the statistical probability  of safety for each car on the train  based on how often they would derail.  On the way there, I'd always pick the safest car  'cause I looked forward to our trips to the city so much.  Then, on the way back, I'd pick the most dangerous ones  because I hated going home.  She's not there anymore, Elliot.  Look, I don't know where we're going, but we need to find Darlene.  They may be after her. - Shh, Shh, Shh.  I thought that was you.  Oh my God, I haven't seen you in forever.  We can't see Darlene right now.  It's too risky.  I know you're confused, Elliot.  But I'm gonna show you. I'm gonna show you  exactly where I've been this whole time.  Look, calm down, I'll figure this out.  I know you don't trust me, I wouldn't either,  but I'm telling you, I'm remembering more and more now  as time goes on. That's a plus.  It's all starting to come back.  And once we get all the answers, I'll be back to normal.  Except for the fact that my dead father  isn't really dead and is sitting across from me.  I'm gonna step outside and give you guys a moment to yourselves.  We'll try feeding him again later, okay?  Okay.  We're not letting anybody through.  I I know the owner.  Freddie, are you okay? ls everyone okay? What the hell happened?  I'm still trying to figure that one out myself.  I was gone one day upstate.  They're saying it was electrical, but, who knows?  On hold with the insurance.  Cocksuckers are doing their typical dance.  Yeah, I was on hold.  No, wait. Not again.  I just came by to pick up some drives  one of my employees dropped off yesterday.  I'm sorry you wasted the trip.  Everything's gone.  Tyrell.  What was it? Boy?  Yeah.  Good.  Thank you for the flowers, sir.  If I'm being honest, uh, it was Anwar who sent the flowers.  He has a way with them.  Tyrell,  you don't know me to beat around the bush,  so I'll, I'll get right to it.  Uh, have a seat.  You understand the, uh,  delicate state we're in these days.  I'm sure you're aware, this This situation  with Sharon Knowles is  It's horrific.  Scott is understandably devastated by it.  My heart goes out to him.  But I don't know what I'd do if  Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I know. I know.  But the thing is, the  The police have indicated to Scott and to me  that you are a person of interest.  Yeah, their suspicions are  Are based on information Scott gave them  about advances you made on Sharon.  Look, Tyrell,  it was not lost on me that you and Scott  had your own competitive frictions.  Hell, the man nabbed CTO right out from under you.  I'm sure his distress is just causing him  to lash out and you're an easy target for him.  And, of, of course I doubt your involvement in this  This mishap, but, but, but  The problem remains.  Scott will continue here,  but you, I'm afraid, cannot.  I'm not sure what you're saying, Phillip.  You know exactly what I'm saying.  Phillip, you can't do this.  You can't do this.  You can't!  I've killed myself for this company!  I've been promoted faster than anyone else!  You know, I can't deny I tried picturing your reaction.  I seldom have time for such imaginings.  But, for you, I was curious,  and it It could have gone any number of ways.  And I found all the different versions quite interesting, I admit.  But, now,  confronted with the reality,  I have to say, I'm disappointed.  Phillip,  please don't do this.  I was on a track.  There was a moment, Tyrell.  A point in your recent past, a  A mistake, a compulsion, a decision, something  that led you to this point right now.  My only advice to you is find that moment  Understand it.  It's the only way to reconcile this, this failure with yourself.  Please, sir.  Don't do this.  I'm begging you.  I  I love this company.  Mr. Wellick, you can't keep ignoring us.  If you have any questions, contact my lawyer.  If you have evidence against me, charge me.  I know I brought you back to township,  but stopping by our old house is not part of the plan.  Come on, these people are gonna be home soon.  Not the best time for a B and E.  This is where it happened, isn't it?  What? Where what happened?  You remember anything about that window?  Come on, Elliot.  Like I said, we should go.  Elliot, what are you doing? Calm down  You pushed me out this window. - Elliot.  You pushed me off the boardwalk.  Elliot, come on. - No.  Maybe you're the one who needs some pushing now.  Calm down. It was an accident.  Bullshit! I was eight years old!  - No. And you thought I deserved it!  That's what you said, isn't it? - No. No.  No! No. Right before you pushed me again!  No, Elliot. You thought you deserved it.  You've felt guilty about this your whole life.  About telling people my secret.  This anger was never at me.  It was at you!  Please, Elliot.  You don't have to be angry at yourself anymore.  Just let it go.  Please. Let it go.  You're right.  I was angry. I was angry at myself.  I hated myself for doing what I did to you.  I'm ready to let go.  What?  Gonna work in the garden a little.  It'd be nice if you wanted to help.  Oh, by the way, you didn't tell me Darlene was back in town.  I haven't seen her back here in a while.  What did you say?  Darlene.  At least I think it was her.  You saw her? Where?  I'm telling you I did not get notification of the request.  That server needs to remain a honeypot off the network.  Sir, I have the request right here from yesterday.  I'm trying to tell you, Jim, our network was compromised yesterday.  I did not make the request, someone else obviously did.  So you need to take the server off the network or something's gonna happen.  I just can't do that, sir.  We have specific orders from Tyrell Wellick to keep the request as is.  That doesn't make any sense.  Look, I need to speak to your supervisor.  Hello?  Is anyone here?  Hello?  Jesus.  I ran out of places to look, so I figured I'd try the last place he'd ever be.  But struck out again.  God  I haven't been here in years.  The new family that just moved in is so weird.  Especially the dad.  They didn't really change much.  You okay?  Yeah.  Shit! Weird, new dad's back.  I'm sorry, by the way.  For what?  I should be more open with you.  You're family.  Okay, okay, don't get all mushy on me now.  Do you see that?  Wasn't that Elliot's room?  We're almost there  Almost there.  Why Why are we here?  I thought you said we were going somewhere safe.  Elliot!  Elliot!  Shit.  What the hell are they doing here?  It won't be long now.  I tried to protect you, son, but they caught up to us.  Elliot!  What are you talking about?  That's Darlene and Angela.  Trust me, son, I wanted to tell you sooner.  Things got too accelerated at the end there.  You have to believe that.  No matter what anyone tries to do, I will never leave you.  I will always be right here.  Do you understand that? They are not gonna break us apart again.  What's going on? Tell me right now! Listen to me.  Listen to me, because we don't have much time.  They're gonna try and get rid of me again,  and I need you to not let them.  Why would they get rid of you?  Please, Elliot. Listen to me.  I will never leave you.  I will never leave you alone again.  I love you, son.  What's he talking about?  What's he talk What's he talking about?  Hey, I wanna know.  I wanna know.  I wanna know!  Elliot, who are you talking to?  What do you mean? I'm talking to  Stay back. Stay back.  Elliot, you're bleeding.  Elliot.  Ah!  Elliot, what are you doing here?  You didn't see him?  Who?  - This can't be happening. - No.  This can't be happening. This can't be happening.  No.  This is happening, isn't it?  You knew all along, didn't you?  Huh?  Elliot,  who do you think you've been talking to?  You're gonna make me say it, aren't you?  I'm Mr. Robot.  You're gonna be okay.  I think I'm pretty fucking far from okay.  Don't take this the wrong way,  but I envy you.  I wish I could talk to my mom again.  Even if she isn't real.  Take care of yourself, okay?  I know you don't feel like talking about it.  You're right, I don't.  Unfortunately, I need to know, Elliot.  Given what we've been doing  I just need to know.  Do you remember any of it?  Remember what?  When we first started fsociety?  Uh, is Mr. Wellick in?  Oh, hi, Mr. Goddard.  No, he's gone.  He was, um He was let go today.  What?  Uh, why?  I don't know.  He wasn't always the easiest person to deal with.  I'm I'm sure.  Uh  Do you think you can get me in to see, uh, Scott Knowles?  It's urgent.  Oh, no.  Definitely not now.  You haven't heard?  Dad, what's going on?  I'll let you two talk.  I know, I know, but, hey,  you popped in over at my home.  I figured I'd, uh, return the favor.  What do you want?  To offer you something you may want.  Come on in.  If this is about the case  Please. I don't care about the case.  I don't even understand the case. I have lawyers for that.  Then what?  You boys can wait outside.  So, I gotta be honest,  I was impressed by you.  Sure, your career's finished, but you played a great short game.  You took a big gamble and you got what you wanted.  It was just, you know, the wrong thing to want.  What do you care?  You know, I looked into you over there at Allsafe.  I mean, lots of people would have settled into middle-management bliss  after all the shit you've taken. But you didn't.  You're relentless and smart.  And that combination is very valuable  to a lot of important people. People I know.  Where are you going with all of this?  I think I can land you a pretty lucrative gig.  A gig?  Where?  Your favorite place, where else?  You slummed it  all the way down to Jersey in person  to offer me a job at the company  I'm currently suing?  What's the real ask here?  I think you'd make a great businesswoman.  I'm afraid it's nothing more than that.  Is this a joke?  It's no joke. My pals think you can bring a lot to the table.  You can't be offering me a job there.  You're testifying against them.  So? You'll find this out fairly soon,  but, in business, grudges aren't really a thing.  It's too emotional.  It's because you pulled off, what you pulled off, that they called me.  This is a huge class-action lawsuit.  They're going to pay millions.  Roughly 75 to 100 million.  And that's what their lawyers will settle for.  After they exhaust most of your legal team's funds for the next seven years.  And, sure, that is That's a lot of money, but not to them, not really.  We started a rainy-day fund when the leak happened just for this occasion.  The fund itself has already made five times that amount.  I'd like to ask you to leave.  Shall I pass your name along to them?  I'm not working there.  They killed my mother.  And every fast food joint around the corner  delivers diabetes to millions of people.  Phillip Morris hands out lung cancer on the hour, every hour.  I mean, hell,  everyone's destroying the planet beyond the point of no return.  Are you really gonna start taking all of these things so personally?  Maybe I will.  Maybe someone has to.  A suggestion.  If you want to change things,  perhaps you should try from Within.  Because this is what happens from the outside.  These guys don't wait on anyone.  So you'll have to let 'em know by tomorrow.  I'll show myself out.  These are all empty.  Are you just filling them and dumping them?  Where are your new 'scrips?  What does it matter?  I don't even know what's real anymore.  Look  I know you feel shitty right now.  But once you take your meds  Maybe we should stop it, Darlene.  Stop what?  The plan.  The hack.  Everything. Maybe we shouldn't execute it.  What? Why?  The minute our infected server gets back on the main network, we're set.  It wasn't me.  The whole time.  Wasn't really me doing all of that.  Elliot.  The reasons we wanted to do this,  the reasons why we all wanted to do this, are real.  Maybe you don't realize this, but this was your idea.  You came up with this.  There is a part of you, somewhere deep down inside,  that knows this is the right thing to do.  I'm gonna get your meds.  We'll talk more when I get back, okay?  Come on.  What would you do if you were in my shoes?  I know, I know, I'm officially crazy  but the plan isn't.  Is it?  What the hell are you  Shh! Shh.  I've been waiting outside your apartment until she left.  I didn't want anyone to know I'm here.  I know you're behind it.  All of it.  Fsociety.  The server. Colby. Allsafe.  You're the one constant in a sea of variables.  Elliot?  Now,  I don't know what you're grand plan is,  but I need to, and you're going to tell me.  Two days ago, I strangled a woman to death.  Just with my hands.  It's a strange sensation.  Something so tremendous done by  something so simple.  The first 10 seconds were  Uncomfortable.  A feeling of limbo.  But then your muscles tense.  And she struggles and fights,  but it almost disappears in the background  along with everything else in the world.  In that moment, it's just you and absolute power.  Nothing else.  That moment stayed with me.  I thought I'd feel guilty for being a murderer.  But I don't.  I feel wonder.  How long has this been going on?  I don't know.  And what is it that you're doing, exactly?  Encrypting all the files.  All of Evil Corp's financial records  will be impossible to access.  The encryption key will self-delete  after the process completes.  - What about the backups? - I took care of that, too.  China and Steel Mountain.  Of course, even when we went redundant  I hacked the AirDream network.  I was in all of them.  You really thought of everything.  Who else was involved?  Just me.  Well, now it's you and me.  I've always told you we'd end up working together, Elliot.  But Still,  I have to know.  Why did you do it?  What did you hope to accomplish by doing all of this?  I don't know.  I wanted to save the world.  Happy New Year 2016 - New Year, New Color ;-)
1 Come on, will ya Will ya go?  Come on, go. Hey.  You cheated on your current wife with seven different women.  I got digital proof of all of it.  And if you don't stop seeing Krista your wife will know everything.  Done.  And one more thing. I'm gonna need something from you.  I dont just hack you, Krista.  I hack everyone.  So I gotta be honest, I was impressed by you.  I think I can land you a pretty lucrative gig.  Who are you?  That'll come later.  Elliot, listen to me.  I will never leave you. I will never leave you alone again.  Who are you talking to?  Since last month,  Evil Corp has moved its tapes to  Five backup facilities. And you have a plan to take them all down.  Why are you working with us?  The hack, everything, maybe we shouldn't execute it.  Why?  The minute our infected server gets back on the main network, we're set.  Scott will continue here.  But you, I'm afraid, cannot.  What the hell are you - Shh.  I don't know what your grand plan is, but I need to, and you're going to tell me.  Why did you do it?  What did you hope to accomplish by doing all of this?  I wanted to save the world.  Hey.  So good to see you.  You look great.  Can I get you a drink?  Look, Michael, I don't  Jesus.  I forgot.  That's not even your real name.  Uh  It's, uh, Lenny.  Lenny.  Just tell me what's going on.  How advanced is it?  I already emailed my friend at Sloan Kettering.  And if it's as serious as you say  Krista, Krista  Then she wants to see  Look  I'm not dying.  You're a sick motherfucker!  Look, hold on.  Don't you ever call me again. Even when you are dying.  One of your patients hacked me.  Some kid His name's Elliot Alderson.  I went to the police already.  Please, sit back down.  We need to talk about this.  Here.  The police had their cybercrime division look into it.  They've been trying to track him down for the past six weeks.  What is this?  That proves it was him. He took my dog to the vet.  See, she was micro-chipped And I gave her chip number to all the vets in the city.  This sick fucker not only hacked me and ruined my life,  he stole my dog on top of it.  This guy's certifiable.  I mean, he's seeing you, so technically, he is.  What did he do to you exactly?  He made me,  you know,  say all those things to you.  This kid should not be allowed to do what he did.  He hacked into my private life.  And then those Ashley Madison dumps happened.  My wife found out about everything anyway.  After the whole thing, she left me.  I can't even see my little girl.  The divorce is Is a nightmare  I don't give a shit about your divorce.  If he's doing this to me, then he must be doing this to other people.  Think about it,  if he knew enough about me to hack me,  then that means he must've hacked you, too.  He did, didn't he?  I can't talk about this with you.  Hey! You have to help me catch him.  The dog thing alone isn't enough.  My buddy says this Computer Abuse and Fraud Act  is tough to prosecute.  You need a A lot of evidence.  All right, this kid is good, Krista.  He was routing through something called "proxies"  or something out in Estonia.  He's untraceable.  Short of that whole country falling apart,  we're never gonna get our hands on any real evidence.  And just what exactly do you think I can do?  Maybe he said something?  You know, in your sessions.  Oh. Come on, don't give me  that privileged information bullshit.  This guy's committing a crime, a serious one.  He deserves to go to jail.  If you know something,  if he said anything, you have to tell me.  Look, I'm not the enemy here,  he is.  We were a good thing.  Remember?  I mean,  don't you remember this place?  We had some good times here.  Come on,  don't stay mad at me.  I really loved you.  He never told me anything.  I can't help you.  The asshole stole my dog!  The response to the Japanese and Chinese  stock markets has provoked panic, setting off the downward trends  of the European stock exchange.  But, what's even more worrisome is that the IMF  has no leverage against these defaults.  Already, 17 governments are said to be in large-scale crisis,  with some on the verge of collapse.  Amongst the countries are Lithuania, Croatia, Ukraine,  Romania, the Czech Republic, and Estonia.  This faction has deemed the hack  This is a world destruction, Your life ain't nothing  The human race is becoming a disgrace  Countries are fighting with chemical warfare  Not giving a damn about the people who live there  Yes, the world is headed for destruction  Is it a nuclear war?  What are you asking for?  Happy New Year 2016 - New Year, New Color ;-)  This is a world destruction Your life  Who am I?  Excuse me?  I mean, where am I?  You've been parked in the lot for the past two days.  That's as much as you paid me before the credit card systems went down.  I'm gonna need some cash, man.  This is Tyrell's.  Why were we in there?  Aw, don't tell me you don't have any cash.  Huh, you're shit out of luck for a while, buddy.  I don't understand.  How long have you been asleep?  Seriously  What do you remember?  Wait I don't even trust you.  Hey!  Hey. Where are you going? What about your car?  Hey. I'm gonna tow your car tonight!  What took you so long?  I just had to shower and change.  You're still new here I wouldn't push it.  Jesus Christ, finally you're here. Where have you been?  Yeah, man! I mean, not cool, not cool at all.  I thought we were gonna execute together. I mean what is goin' on here?  He's just saying that we had planned on something  a little more ceremonial.  Ceremonial, man?  We been wiping drives, wrinkling cables,  pulling fiber chops in the adjunct vaults.  Everyone, lay off. I'm sure he had his reasons.  'Sides, whatever, the point is, it worked.  Jesus. What did I do?  We need to clean up and get the hell outta here.  Were you there? Did you see it? What did I do?  Elliot, what's going on?  You disappear on me at the apartment and come here  to execute without even telling me?  Execute. It executed?  But how? I What happened to Tyrell?  then you're gone for another three days.  Where have you been?  Are you saying it went through?  Like gangbusters.  Everyone's loving it.  People actually wanna join fsociety.  They're organizing protests all across the city.  Elliot!  What's going on?  Are you still seeing him?  No, but I need to.  Dude, you cant just leave.  We're in wipe-down mode here and we need your help.  I told you we shouldn't have done this.  So, okay.  Your burn rate. That's rent and utilities alone  is 50,000 a month.  Your lease isn't up for another three months,  so we have to eat those costs no matter what.  So, that leaves us with staffing, operations,  outstanding loans, equipment rentals.  I'm just gonna call it, Gideon.  You have to shut down Allsafe.  Maybe I can just  buy some time.  We could bounce back from this.  Gideon, your number one client is in the middle of a major crisis.  You can't escape the fallout from this.  As your part-time CFO and your friend, I have to be honest and tell you,  this is beyond bleak.  When is it not?  I'm sorry?  Ever since I started this company  it's felt like we've just been  rearranging chairs on the goddamn Titanic.  When was the last time you and I have not had a depressing conversation?  Gideon, I handle the money. It's always gonna be a depressing conversation.  The best thing you can do for them is to let them know soon,  so they can find other jobs.  And  What?  All their 401k's were tied up in the market  which is expected to plummet once the bell rings.  Well, that's only rumors at this point.  What?  It seems to be a little more than rumors.  Every bank is essentially affected.  I know I couldn't use any of my credit cards over the weekend. Could you?  Oh, I don't know. There might be a silver lining to all this.  If what they're saying about these fsociety hackers is actually true  You'll now have no debt.  Why did Tyrell let this happen?  He was with me. I told him the whole plan.  He was gonna stop it.  A simple program A worm that can make data unreadable.  Malware that took Darlene maybe two hours to code.  Is that really all it takes to kill the world?  Shouldn't I be enjoying this?  Why am I even looking for Tyrell?  Isn't this what we wanted?  So this is what a revolution looks like.  People in expensive clothing running around?  Not how I pictured it.  I wonder what stage they're at.  Denial, muttering to themselves, "No, this can be fixed."  Maybe bargaining, forcing their techs to work overtime to try to decrypt our data.  Or have they come to the realization yet that Darlene encrypted everything  with 256-bit AES  and it would take an incomprehensible amount of time to crack.  Security breaches  That all of their data is actually gone,  for good.  No. I have to find him.  I have to know what happened.  Can I help you with something?  Yes. I'm looking for Tyrell Wellick.  He's not here.  He doesn't work here anymore.  Why are you here? What do you need to see him for?  And yes, confirmation coming in.  Fsociety's claiming responsibility for the hack.  We are cutting live to the video right now.  Evil Corp.  We have delivered on our promise as expected.  The people of the world  who have been enslaved by you have been freed.  Your financial data has been destroyed.  Any attempts to salvage it will be utterly futile.  Face it.  You have been owned!  We, at fsociety,  will smile as we watch you  and your dark soul die.  That means any money you owe these pigs  has been forgiven by us, your friends, at fsociety.  The market's opening bell this morning  will be the final death knell of Evil Corp.  We hope, as a new society rises from the ashes, that you will forge a better world.  A world that values a free people.  A world where greed is not encouraged.  A world that belongs to us again!  A world changed forever!  And while you do that,  remember to repeat these words. "We are fsociety.  "We are finally free!  "We are finally awake!"  Authorities have been trying to locate the whereabouts  of the mysterious masked man as well as other members of the fsociety collective.  The investigation is still underway.  The FBI cybercrime division is working  Where's my bag?  I need my bag. It It has all of my papers.  I put all of your talking points on these index cards  so that you wouldn't have  God damn it! Will you please just give me my bag, for Christ's sake!  I asked you to keep it close by!  I'm sorry, I didn't mean anything by it. I was just trying to  Never mind what you meant. Just do as I say.  I'm sorry.  I didn't mean to snap at you.  It's been a long day and I  I'm not used to all the young,  new faces around here.  No problem.  Four minutes, people! It's your last look. Let's go.  So, anyways, this should fry anything and everything to a crisp.  You're in luck, my boss is at the bank.  Seems like everybody's lining up this morning. So you got some time.  Jesus, are we really doing this right now?  Hey, I don't need no judgment. Not like I wanna be here either.  Sorry, dude, I got no sympathy.  You don't want to put cute puppies out of their misery, you don't have to.  It's just sick.  That ain't on me. I gotta pay the bills. Only reason why I'm here.  You know, I've run all the scenarios of our little revolution here,  but, uh, using a dead puppy oven was not on my list.  Teddy sniffing glue he was 12 years old  Fell from the roof on East Two-Nine  Cathy was 11 when she pulled the plug  On 26 reds and a bottle of wine  Bobby got leukemia, 14 years old  He looked like 65 when he died  He was a friend of mine  Those are people who died, died  Those are people who died, died  Those are people who died, died  Those are people who died, died  They were all my friends, they just died  G-berg and Georgie let their gimmicks go rotten,  So they died of hepatitis in upper Manhattan  Sly in Vietnam took a bullet in the head  Bobby OD'd on Drano on the night that he was wed  They were two more friends of mine  Two more friends that died  Those are people who died, died  They were all my friends, and they died  Mary took a dry dive from a hotel room  - Bobby hung himself from a cell in The Tombs,  Judy jumped in front of a subway train  Eddie got slit in the jugular vein  And, Eddie, I miss you more than all the others  Can I help you?  Yeah.  I'm looking for Tyrell Wellick.  Is he here?  No, he's not.  Do you know where he is?  Who are you?  Good question.  We work together.  He'll be home soon.  He just called me from the car 10 minutes ago,  stuck in some traffic.  You're welcome to wait inside if you want.  Whoa! Ah!  Shit.  Get up! Fsociety, bitch!  What did you say your name was?  Uh, I'm Ollie.  And what were you working on with my husband?  You've gotta help get me out of this.  There's something about her.  I feel like she can hear us.  He wanted my advice.  You know, about the hack that's going on right now.  When was the last time you saw him?  She's lying to me. He isn't coming.  She's fishing for something.  I'm not sure.  It was last week, I think.  Really?  You know, between you and me,  I'm a little concerned for Tyrell.  Was he acting strange when you saw him?  No.  That's funny.  Because he was acting very strange last I saw him.  Three days ago.  Didn't she say he just called?  And then he just vanished.  Excuse me?  I don't understand what you're saying.  Are you okay?  Yeah.  I think it's just the stress  from the past few days getting to me.  Anyway, I shouldn't take up any more of your time.  Thank you,  Ollie.  And, Sarah, we've had meetings all weekend handling the situation.  I'm being told by our network storage team that they are in fact  getting to the bottom of this.  Mr. Plouffe, have you seen the latest stock price?  It's hitting an all-time low of $18 and it's still dropping.  How are people reacting to this on the inside?  Almost $400 billion of wealth was lost today.  That's pretty astounding. Are you concerned?  That's an interesting question.  Right now, we are focused on tackling the technical issues at hand.  We have loyal customers who are suffering and our number one priority  is to address their needs.  We had one of our experts in here earlier today.  They're saying that if, in fact, fsociety's claims are true,  your data is inaccessible and could prove nearly impossible to recover.  And given that there does seem to be some legitimacy to this  The White House is with us on this.  They're gonna protect everyone's money.  The bottom line is, the public does not need to worry about this.  Mr. Plouffe, this was a massive attack.  All of your servers including your data center in China,  as well as your offline backups, have been destroyed.  I'm not really sure you can ask the public not to worry.  You want me to be honest?  - Of course. - You're right.  Absolutely right. The public should be worried.  I mean  Personally, my life is over.  My pension, savings, everything  has been in this company since I started here. And that's all gone now.  The truth is,  I've been with the engineering team all weekend.  No one knows how to fix it.  In fact, about the only thing we do know for certain is that  This will be impossible to fix.  Go take care of this.  Calm down, everyone.  Good. Thank you. Thanks.  I heard you were leaving for the day.  Um, Mr. Price  Did you need me to stay?  No. No, no. No. Sit. Sit.  I I know I'm the CEO of the company,  but what you went through,  it was traumatic.  I just felt I needed to make myself available.  You are absolutely free to To go home and, and recover.  Of course.  All right?  Uh  You're Terry's reference, right?  I rarely see him impressed with anyone, but you You, well  We're glad you're on the team.  And I look forward to you impressing me as well.  Yeah, I'm I'm holding a press conference this afternoon.  Since you're new to the PR department, I I think you should attend.  You might pick up some invaluable lessons.  Um  No.  No, I'm not sure that I can.  Well  The invitation is open  if you should change your mind.  Um  You need some new shoes.  Those won't do anymore.  Tyrell Wellick's gone, I wake up in his SUV, and the world's about to fall apart.  I know, I know this looks bad, but I'm sure there's an explanation.  Don't think that!  We'll find him, We'll find him.  He's gotta be somewhere.  My dad, Mr. Robot, whatever the hell he is,  if he's not gonna show up, maybe he got sloppy.  Left behind a clue.  All right. Come out!  Come out now!  Come on!  I need to know what happened!  Come on out!  I'm here!  I'm waiting for you!  Come on, man.  Come out!  Okay. We have to go analog for this.  We need to get these fliers out now  since we can't be sure anyone's Internet access will work.  Uh  What?  I'm thinking ahead.  First banking, then infrastructure. We've been through this.  Now, take these fliers, pass them out.  It's the last step and then we're clear.  You guys are acting like we're walking towards doomsday here.  Well, yeah, it does say here it's an "end of the world party."  Figure of speech.  You wonder why we're not in high spirits?  Maybe it's because our fearless leader goes and shoots up the world  and then disappears, yet again,  while we're here cleaning up after him.  He knows the password.  Which means I know the password.  What's he trying to say?  I'm on the hook for everything?  He won't come out to play if I ask,  so maybe I gotta force his hand.  I need to use the landline.  I need to get myself arrested.  911, what's your emergency?  I have a confession to make.  All right, you got me.  I'm afraid to ask.  Wait a minute, you said you work  Was this from the guy  The one they're talking about on the news?  Um  Yes.  You mean to tell me you witness this thing  And you're here to buy new shoes?  Wow.  That's pretty It's  It's just, pretty cold.  How can you work there?  That guy said it himself, they're just liars.  I know.  They are.  But,  I'm not sure that he knew what he was saying.  Oh, you sound just like them.  Have some moral fiber and leave their asses.  Their practices are well documented and it's all despicable.  Listen, this isn't my business, but don't drink their Kool-Aid.  Look, I just needed a job.  What kind of an excuse is that?  You don't understand.  You should hear yourself.  I don't know who you think you're talking to, but I'll try the Pradas next.  Calm down.  I'll get you a caramel latte. It's on me.  Where is he?  You know how this looks, right? Very weird.  I don't give a shit.  Where's Tyrell?  We made a deal that helped us both.  Tell me where he is!  You're starting to attract some attention.  I recommend you get one of those Bluetooth headsets.  That way people will just think you're the local douche.  Tyrell disappeared, no one knows where he is.  But you know.  So do you.  You forget, kiddo,  I am you.  No, you're not.  Is that a fact?  Hey, man.  I gotta tell you, I had sex with your mom this morning,  and it was fantastic.  Don't have time for you, little man.  Oh, it was real nice. Smell.  You're losing it, kiddo.  I'm only supposed to be your prophet.  You're supposed to be my God.  Come on.  The dramatic repercussions of the recent financial meltdown  are not relegated to developing nations.  The United States has also witnessed a disruption of order and peace.  While businesses determine how or whether they can function through the uncertainty,  individuals have taken to the streets  Oh.  Very nice.  I'm glad you reconsidered.  What What is it?  Come on  You have questions  I'm a person with a lot of answers. Especially right now.  Okay.  It's just that  Well, I can't help but wonder,  why do you seem so confident?  Everyone else is worried, but you  You're sure that you're gonna get through this.  - Why? - Hmm.  People did this, right?  Aliens didn't invade our planet.  Zeus didn't come out of the heavens to destroy us.  And zombies haven't risen from the dead.  No.  Whoever's behind this,  they're just people,  like you and me.  Except of course, I have the full weight of  the biggest conglomerate in the world behind me.  You'll come to realize that when you have that,  matters like this, they tend to crack  under that weight.  Can I ask another question?  All right. Go.  Why me?  Why am I really here?  I know you know who I am.  Why are you letting me be here?  Why are you even talking to me right now?  None of this makes any sense.  Well, be that as it may, I  I find you refreshing.  You're young, bold.  Exactly what we need right now.  - Come on. - What?  There has to be more to it than that.  Angela,  just a word of advice.  Don't talk your way out of a compliment.  Shall we?  Oh  You're still thinking about this morning.  I don't think I'll ever get that image out of my head.  Between you and me, I was glad he killed himself.  He was not a very good person.  He had a gambling problem. He drank too much. Most notably, he was weak.  His instincts left a lot to be desired.  Oh, I despise people like that.  In fact, I felt  the world was a little better off  knowing he wasn't in it anymore.  Uh, I believe even his family will benefit from this, in the long run.  Before we even begin,  let's have a moment of silence for our dear, brave friend  James Plouffe.  Hey, dirty, Baby I got your money  Hey, dirty, Baby I got your money  Don't you worry, Say, hey  Well, this place is a petri dish now.  Yup, I'd say we got enough fingerprints everywhere.  So that's it then, right?  "That's it?"  That's it?  How about, "That's amazing"?  How about we party and  thank ourselves for all the hard work we did?  Yeah, I don't think Trenton was talking about tonight.  Well, what then?  Well, you know, I I think she's saying, after tonight.  Right? Then what? I mean, what do we all do now?  Guys! This isn't about what we'll do tomorrow.  This is about what we did.  I mean, look at all these people.  They're free because of us.  Because of what we did in this room.  We are finally awake!  We are finally alive.  We are free. We are free. We are free. We are free. We are free.  I know you killed him.  I know you did it.  I know you did it. Just tell me what happened to Tyrell.  Shut up!  I have played nice for far too long.  I'm so sick of your whining.  It's not gonna change anything, anyway.  Please, you have to do something.  You have to help me, say something, make him tell me.  Stop talking to them.  They can't help us.  We have to do this together. Just us.  He's right, you know.  You're hurting the whole family, Elliot.  No, no.  This isn't my family. None of them are real.  Neither is whoever you're talking to.  You're not real.  You're not real.  And what? You are?  Is any of it real?  I mean, look at this!  Look at it!  A world built on fantasy.  Synthetic emotions in the form of pills.  Psychological warfare in the form of advertising.  Mind-altering chemicals in the form of food.  Brain-washing seminars in the form of media.  Controlled isolated bubbles in the form of social networks.  Real?  You wanna talk about reality?  We haven't lived in anything remotely close to it since the turn of the century.  We turned it off, took out the batteries,  snacked on a bag of GMOs while we  tossed the remnants in the ever-expanding dumpster of the human condition.  We live in branded houses,  trademarked by corporations built on  bipolar numbers jumping up and down on digital displays,  hypnotizing us into the biggest slumber mankind has ever seen.  You have to dig pretty deep, kiddo, before you can find anything real.  We live in a kingdom of bullshit!  A kingdom you've lived in for far too long.  So, don't tell me about not being real!  I'm no less real than the fucking beef patty in your Big Mac.  As far as you're concerned, Elliot, I am very real.  We are all together now, whether you like it or not.  Fsociety! Fsociety! Fsociety! Fsociety!  No.  No!  No!  I want to be alone.  I need to be alone.  No, you don't want that, remember?  Remember how you felt when you were alone?  You were in pain. You were miserable-That's why we're here.  On those lonely nights when you sat and cried in your apartment,  you begged us to help you. You asked us to come. You needed us to come.  No!  I want you to leave!  Leave!  We're deep down inside you, Elliot.  You can't leave us. And we can't leave you.  Even.  It's true, son.  I don't know what I'm supposed to do.  I'll tell you exactly what you're gonna do.  You're gonna start listening to us.  The world is a better place because of what we did, Elliot.  And you're gonna realize that one way or another.  Now, here's what I need you to do now.  You're going to walk to the subway.  You're going to get on your train.  You're going to get off at your stop.  You're going to go home.  You're gonna sit at your computer,  watch and enjoy the beautiful carnage that we've all created together.  As a new society rises from the ashes.  But you will forge a better world  Sound and color with me in my mind  Sound and color Try to keep myself awake  Sound and color This life ain't like a book  Sound and color Try to keep myself awake  Sound and color This life ain't like a book  Sound and color Try to keep myself awake  Sound and color This life ain't like a book  Sound and color I wanna touch a human being  Sound and color I want to go back to sleep  Sound and color Ain't life just awfully strange  Sound and color You wish you never gave it all away  Sound and color The more the feeling seem to end the same  Sound and color Life is  Sound and color  Sound and color  Sound and color  Sound and color  Sound and color  Go ahead. What's on your mind?  I know you're not without your troubles,  but we still haven't discussed the coltan mines.  Are you really bringing that up at a time like this?  You asked, I answered succinctly.  Well, perhaps I was too hasty.  I'd like, for the moment, to take in the music.  Besides, plenty of other items on our agenda The fucking Congo can wait.  Well, your troubles are weighing heavily on you.  I'm not entirely sure why.  I was told that you know the person responsible.  Yes, yes, of course we do.  And we will handle that person as we usually do.  You seem a little preoccupied yourself.  I don't believe in preoccupation.  It's more of an observation.  Which is?  The infamous emperor Nero played an instrument  very similar to the one she's playing.  The lyre.  Legend has it that he played it merrily as he watched  As he watched?  As he watched Rome burn.  Happy New Year 2016 - New Year, New Color ;-)
My fellow Americans,  no hacker should be able to shut down our networks  A massive attack.  Data is inaccessible.  Or invade the privacy of American families.  You're being watched and recorded.  I urge this Congress  to protect our children's information.  Dear brothers and sisters,  now is the time to open your eyes.  I started intercepting all the traffic on your network.  That's when I noticed something strange.  That's when I decided to hack you.  We are fsociety!  We are finally free!  We are on the verge  of taking down this virtual reality.  Exciting time in the world right now, exciting time.  So this is what a revolution looks like.  Why did you do it?  I wanted to save the world.  "Mr. Robot," USA's Golden Globe  and Peabody award-winning original drama  about a vigilante hacker with a mission to change the world  has engaged audiences like no other show.  "Mr. Robot" won two Golden Globes,  three Critics' Choice Awards,  but what really says something about "Mr. Robot" is  fans found this show even before the critics showed up,  even before the awards showed up.  Its realistic portrayal  of a world where information is vulnerable,  everyone is being watched, and anyone can be compromised  has fueled its rise as a cultural phenomenon.  "Mr. Robot" comes at a time  where you can't turn on the television  or read a newspaper without hearing  about some massive corporate or government hack.  But how much of the world  portrayed by "Mr. Robot" is possible?  A lot more than you might think.  Over the next hour, we'll examine  what's truly at risk in our technology-obsessed world.  The only completely secure computer  is a computer that no one can use.  We'll talk to the creator and cast  as well as pop culture experts  about why "Mr. Robot" has resonated so powerfully.  Something incredibly prophetic happened on the show,  almost, you know, weeks away from it happening in real life.  And through unprecedented access  to cybersecurity experts and real-life hackers,  we'll reveal how "Mr. Robot" is mirroring real-world scenarios  if not outright predicting them.  You look at the hacks that played out in season one  gaining access to Steel Mountain,  bumping next to someone  to steal and clone their proximity badge,  getting a backdoor in a phone  all of those are hacks that we read about in the news  every week now.  Plus, we'll also discuss  what's in store for season two.  The second season it's very different from season one.  This is "Mr. Robot dec0d3d."  And the Golden Globe goes to  "Mr. Robot." Yep.  "Mr. Robot" is the brainchild  of creator Sam Esmail.  "Mr. Robot" is about this sort of modern society  and the way we're so dependent on technology  just to even socialize,  so it's really about this guy who cannot connect,  and the only way he does so is by hacking people.  "Mr. Robot" tells the story of Elliot Alderson.  By night, he's a socially withdrawn  but gifted computer hacker who uses his skills  to expose the misdeeds of others.  Wait, hold on. I'll give you the money.  I'll pay you.  How much do you want? I'll pay you.  That's the part you were wrong about, Rohit.  I don't give a shit about money.  By day, he's a cybersecurity expert  who's been recruited by the mysterious Mr. Robot  to bring down the very corporation  he was hired to protect.  What if you could take down one conglomerate,  a conglomerate so deeply entrenched  in the world's economy that "too big to fail"  doesn't even come close to describing it?  Together, with the hacker group fsociety,  he succeeds in crippling the world's most powerful firm,  setting in motion a global crisis  beyond anyone's control.  Evil Corp, the people of the world  who have been enslaved by you have been freed.  Your financial data has been destroyed.  "Mr. Robot" features a stellar ensemble cast  led by the Critics' Choice Award winner for Best Actor,  Rami Malek.  Getting in Elliot's head, as odd as it seems,  is, you know, something I really enjoy,  you know, to go into his psychosis,  what he's suffering through,  the good in him, the bad, the ugly.  All of it is it's something that consumes me.  Christian Slater,  winner of the Golden Globe Award  for Best Supporting Actor, plays Mr. Robot.  The relationship between Mr. Robot and Elliot  you know, this character, Mr. Robot,  comes into his life and lures him into his world  to become part of this team of people  that are really looking to change society.  I tried to protect you, son, but they caught up to us.  What are you talking about?  That's Darlene and Angela.  Elliot, who are you talking to?  What do you mean? I'm talking to  This dark and edgy series,  with its cinematic style and unpredictable plotlines,  has struck a chord with viewers.  The world of hacking really  is sort of an obscure world to the general population,  so the fact that we broke out in any way like that  is incredibly shocking.  Kate Coyne, executive editor at "People,"  and Emily Yoshida,  entertainment editor at "The Verge,"  have closely followed "Mr. Robot's" rise  to prominence in pop culture.  I think "Mr. Robot" made such an impression  because of the timeliness.  It's inspired big debates  that went beyond the events of the show.  I think that's always the sign of a show  that is meaningful for the time in which it's being made.  The things that concern us,  the big ideas that concern us at any given era  I think "Mr. Robot" really taps into that.  This is very much a show that could only exist  in a post-WikiLeaks world.  You know, everybody, I think,  probably suspects that, on some level,  what they're doing is being watched or recorded.  When a cry goes up about the NSA  or about Edward Snowden or something,  a lot of people practically just shrug, like,  "Yeah, yeah, probably  you're probably listening to my cell calls."  That's crazy, but that's the state that we're in now.  Anybody can hack into anything.  His was the easiest to hack.  Password was 123456Seven.  I witnessed his first "I love you"  with Angela over Gchat.  Then I witnessed the first of many infidelities  with Stella B.  Everything about us is all digital.  It's all in a cloud.  Now you can go get somebody's social security, fingerprints,  images, everything.  You can literally take over their entire life.  That's frightening.  It's not like they're talking about it  in science-fiction terms.  What they're tackling is something  that's actually currently, right now happening.  Coming up on "Mr. Robot dec0d3d,"  we'll take a deeper look at the rise of hacking culture  There's always been a little bit  of wish fulfillment to hacker stories  in that they are the sort of modern superheroes.  And learn how a Hollywood movie  alerted a president to the dangers of cybersecurity.  Plus, we'll also discuss  what's in store for season two.  But first, a word from our corporate overlords!  Come on, kid. We got big things in store.  Big things.  "Mr. Robot's" authentic portrayal  of computer hacking has alerted us  to the real-world dangers we all face.  Now we'll find out just how much we're at risk.  This is "Mr. Robot dec0d3d."  How about Global Thermonuclear War?  In 1983, the movie "WarGames"  forever changed the way we would look at hacking.  Ronald Reagan was apparently shown the movie "WarGames,"  and he commissioned, you know, a study as to:  Is this actually possible?  And everybody was expecting the answer was,  "No, you can't start, you know, a global thermonuclear war  "just by dialing up, you know, a computer accidentally  and getting it to talk to you."  And unfortunately, the answer came back going,  "Well, um, this is a little more possible than we thought."  "WarGames" also spawned  a whole new generation of hackers.  I mean, I remember being a kid and watching Matthew Broderick  do all that and going, "That's really cool.  That's really awesome," you know?  And, by the way, he saved the world.  It's the first time that you saw Hollywood trying to depict  what people could do with computers  that went beyond just playing games and sending emails  and got me even more excited in computers and computer hacking.  What is hacking? Who hacks?  How and why is it executed?  To get the answers, we went to world-renowned specialists  in the field of cybersecurity  and to the foremost experts on the subject,  the hackers themselves.  Everybody has a different answer  on what a hacker is or what is a hack, but for me,  it comes down to making technology do stuff  it was never meant to do.  The show "Mr. Robot" I'm particular fond of  because they point out how, oftentimes,  it's very simplistic, the hacking mechanism.  Sometimes it's having physical access,  so you can swap a SIM out in a phone.  Other times, it's social engineering.  It's not that they cracked some code or some encryption.  It's that they sent an email,  and they misrepresented who they were, they  and got you to click on an attachment  and run the code for them  or that they called up on the phone  and pretended that they were, you know, a technical person  to get you to give information.  Hello?  Hi, this is Sam from Bank of E security fraud department.  Unfortunately, I have to inform you  that your account's been compromised.  What? What happened?  First, before I can answer any questions,  I need to verify some information.  Are you still at 306 Hawthorne Avenue?  Yes, apartment 2C.  Great, and your security question,  favorite baseball team.  Um, Yankees.  I don't remember this being a security question.  And lastly, your pet's name.  Um, Flipper. Uh, who am I speaking to?  Can I get your name and numb  With those details plus a dictionary brute-force attack,  it'll take my program maybe two minutes  to crack his password.  The last five, ten years,  hacking has become like a new superpower  that hasn't been invented,  and because of everyone's reliance on technology  and all your personal information being online,  this power just sort of came about.  Hacking her was simple.  Her password: Dylan 2791.  Favorite artist  and the year in which she was born, backwards.  People are horrible at being sources of randomness,  so, you know, somebody might think,  "Oh, I used my dog's name, my baby's name,  and the birth and the birth date."  That's a horrible password.  It might seem complicated to you,  but we know how you think because you're a human,  and humans are predictable.  This doesn't make sense.  Did he know I was gonna hack him?  Did he let me?  I'm gonna need to wipe everything.  "Hackers," you know, it used to be a nasty word.  It was, like, synonymous with "criminal,"  but now they're part of the system.  But not all hackers are cut from the same cloth.  So a white hat hacker is one  who would be hired by a corporation  to hack their systems  for the sole purpose of finding the flaws,  whereas black hat there's no permission whatsoever,  and it's usually for malicious purposes.  And then there's the middle ground,  which is grey hat.  Hello, Evil Corp. We are fsociety.  Over the years, we've been watching you:  your financial abuse of the poor,  your corruption of governments,  your cover-ups of the murder of innocent ordinary citizens  all for the sake of profit.  This is why we at fsociety have decided you must die.  I would characterize the members of fsociety  as probably falling into that grey area  because, while their intentions are good,  they are doing highly illegal things.  The entire company's gonna be reeling  from all the data dumps we've got in store for them,  and, man, do we have some goodies.  Some good old-fashioned executive racism,  sexism, fascism.  Trust me we are gonna "ism" so much all over them,  they won't be able to see straight.  Unlike their motives,  there are many psychological traits that hackers share.  Elliot, he's probably depicted more accurate  than I've seen in a long time,  not just for the technical capabilities  and how it is but the actual, like, psychological profile.  He's got that young hacker vibe.  And then his involvement in how he feels about society  and that counter culture I think is very accurate.  I hate when I can't hold in my loneliness.  This crying's been happening too often,  every other week now.  What do normal people do when they get this sad?  He's such a complicated character.  He's full of contradictions.  He hates what society has become,  but he also wants to save it.  He looks down on the people that he cares about,  but then he also protects them.  His abandonment issues are actually something  that I believe personally and I've seen in my work.  I think it is a big motivator on why people get into hacking.  Elliot's, you know, trapped in a bubble.  He's very lonely. He doesn't know how  to connect with people, so he hacks into their lives.  I think all of us to a certain degree  can connect with that type of loneliness,  and the need to maybe not be so robotic  and have more of a human connection with one another.  I like you, bro,  and I want you to like me too.  Am I crazy not to like this guy?  Amongst some of his Facebook likes  are George W. Bush's "Decision Points,"  "Transformers 2: Revenge of the Fallen,"  and the music of Josh Groban.  Must I really justify myself any further?  When you're socially awkward,  or you're worried about people judging you,  you have all these anxieties that just aren't there  when you're in front of a computer.  It's a lot harder to talk to people  than it is to deal with a piece of software.  But when hackers do come together  and groups are formed, leaders emerge.  You want to talk about reality?  We haven't lived in anything remotely close to it  since the turn of the century.  We turned it off, took out the batteries,  snacked on a bag of GMOs while we tossed the remnants  in the ever-expanding dumpster of the human condition.  We live in branded houses, trademarked by corporations,  built on bipolar numbers.  In every hacker group there's this leader that,  online they're quiet,  they're hidden in the background,  but when you meet them they're actually really extroverted  and, like, passionate and principled.  I didn't want to hurt you, Romero.  I just wanted you to come back to the arcade with me  so we could change the world together.  It is this instigator mentality  that forms the basis of Mr. Robot's character.  Do I think Elliot needs Mr. Robot?  I think he's a vital element to Elliot's survival.  He is that darker side that will sometimes do things  that Elliot otherwise would be incapable of doing.  Coming up, we'll explore the eerie ways  "Mr. Robot" parallels the real world.  The Sony hack got a lot of notoriety.  The Ashley Madison hack got a lot of notoriety.  Our show is getting a lot of notoriety  because of the real world connections.  Plus, we'll also discuss  what's in store for season two.  We kind of, like, press the gas pedal down really hard.  Gotten to know my stunt double more this season,  so that might say something.  This is "Mr. Robot dec0d3d."  "Mr. Robot's" authentic portrayal  of computer hacking has alerted us  to the real-world dangers we all face.  Now we'll find out just how much we're at risk.  This is "Mr. Robot dec0d3d."  This kid should not be allowed to do what he did.  He hacked into my private life.  And then those Ashley Madison dumps happened.  My wife found out about everything anyway.  She left me.  In a year in which we've seen  a record number of cyber attacks,  "Mr. Robot's" timeliness is almost uncanny.  I don't know that a TV show  can necessarily predict the future,  but certainly, they can hold a mirror up  to the direction in which we're headed.  And while some storylines  are ripped from the headlines,  other times, "Mr. Robot" was there first.  There were two instances on "Mr. Robot"  where something incredibly prophetic happened on the show  weeks away from it happening in real life.  The Ashley Madison hacks were one.  You know, one of the escorts was 15.  And then the other one was the shooting of the news anchor  in Virginia that happened so close to a similar event  happening on "Mr. Robot"  that the finale had to be delayed a week  just out of sensitivity.  These aren't just isolated incidences  that exist in a bubble.  These are things that are symptoms of larger things  going on in our society.  Colby either used hacking groups  or worked in conjunction with them.  I think a lot of "Mr. Robot" and the hacks in it  kind of reflect reality.  It's happening, it's happening,  it's happening, it's happening.  The hacks that are happening every week in the real world  are stranger than fiction almost.  Power plants hacked,  a movie not released because North Korea was upset,  some of the biggest retailers in the world  lose millions and millions worth of credit cards or data,  hospitals shut down because all their files got encrypted  by someone trying to get ransom out of them.  These all sound like the storylines  of a TV show about hacking,  but it's actually happening now.  "Secretary of Homeland Security Jeh Johnson  "released a statement today stating that these groups  "lack the resources and knowledge of the USL  to successfully mount an attack," end quote.  There are some brilliant people out there,  both on the offense and defensive side of things  that can do amazing things with computers.  You got this, you got this, you got this.  And it's both inspiring and kind of scary  sometimes to see that.  I, uh I have to go. I'm sorry.  I need to go to my office.  What'd you do?  I spoofed a text  from her husband.  So, yeah, probably the most alarming hack we've seen  was the Sony hack where not only, you know,  all of these email archives were compromised,  but also it was released on a schedule of,  you know, every week we're gonna have another one of these,  until you meet with our demands.  Another parallel between "Mr. Robot"  and the real world can be seen in fsociety's threatened use  of a data dump, a scenario inspired by the Sony hack.  They hit the mother lode during the breach,  potentially terabytes worth of email and files.  They're threatening to dump everything.  They released the video this morning.  Meet our demands and we will consider not destroying you.  Consider yourself warned.  This is, you know, a way to hold power accountable.  It can also be used to harass and to silence  and really as an instrument of fear.  In an age where everyone is connected,  and privacy is becoming harder to protect,  "Mr. Robot" has shined a light on the risks and the realities  we all face every day.  The writers have tapped into the paranoia  that we all now feel,  that all of our information is just ripe for the taking.  He got into my system, and he wants me to the put the CD  on one of the computers at work.  Why does he want to do that?  I don't know, Stella.  He didn't give me a full explanation.  So he's got naked pics of me?  Is that the only thing you're seriously  taking away from this conversation?  Hey, babe.  "Mr. Robot" is absolutely showing everyone  that we are living in a society right now  in which secrets just don't exist.  You maybe can't trust many people at all.  I know she went through a divorce four years ago.  I know she was devastated by it  and has been dating losers on eHarmony ever since.  The more accessible we make ourselves,  the more people are probably going to be able  to take advantage of that.  By the end of watching season one of "Mr. Robot,"  anyone who previously just typed away on a computer,  you're probably going about those transactions now  with just a little more caution,  a little bit more of a realization  that that little lock symbol doesn't mean a whole lot.  Our personal information, our very identity,  is accessible to anyone, any time,  and we look to the government to protect us  from criminal activity,  but a recent case between Apple and the FBI,  who are trying to unlock a terrorist's cell phone,  brings up a gray area.  Should the government be given access  to your personal devices?  Telecommunications companies have been cooperating  with law enforcement and intelligence agencies  for nearly a century.  And so you have the FBI saying  "Oh, we can't hack into your iPhone.  We need your help in doing it."  And Apple is saying, "Our stuff is so secure,  it's a danger to everybody if we help you out on this."  NSA and the intelligence community in general  is focused on getting intelligence wherever it can,  by any means possible, so while they may be intending  to target someone associated with a foreign government,  or someone that they suspect of terrorism,  they're collecting your communications to do so.  You would ask any person on the street,  "Should the government be able to hack into a phone  to investigate a terrorism suspect?"  and everybody would say yes.  And then, you ask them, "Well, should they be able  to hack into your phone?" and everybody would say no.  We have to look really, really hard  at the kind of slippery slopes that we're building,  as far as how much access the government  or any other corporation has into our data.  Any analyst at any time can target anyone,  from you or your accountant to a federal judge  to even the president, if I had a personal email.  Ben Franklin said it best: "Those who give up liberty  for security will have neither."  : Coming up: from the tech to the techniques,  see how "Mr. Robot" is as real as it gets.  Every single hack that we show on the show is possible.  Plus, we'll show you what's in store for season two.  Our infinite loop of insanity.  This is "Mr. Robot dec0d3d."  "Mr. Robot's" authentic portrayal  of computer hacking has alerted us to the real-world dangers we all face.  Now we'll find out just how much we're at risk.  This is "Mr. Robot dec0d3d."  Maybe we should consider rehab.  I'm not a junkie.  Then you'll need to prove it to me.  Submit to a bi-monthly drug test, voluntarily.  That's the only way that I'll recommend your release.  This is William Highsmith.  He's not only the head of the IT department here,  he's also an idiot.  He uses useless virus scans, dated servers,  and security software that runs on Windows 98.  One of the reasons why I made this place  my primary care facility.  I can make my health records look like  every other obedient zombie out there.  "Mr. Robot's" popularity  with many of its most fervent fans  can largely be attributed to its realistic portrayal  of computer technology.  That's the purview of technical consultant Kor Adana.  I'm involved in every aspect  of all the tech that you see on the show.  I'm involved in pitching the ideas of the hacks  that we see fsociety being a part of.  It's not your typical tech consulting gig.  Too many movies or TV shows  try to make hacking just magic,  and they don't explain it.  It's just something that you can't understand,  and because of that, it's some superpower.  I think one of the greatest compliments we can get  is just how realistic and authentic the show actually  portrays what's really going on out there.  One of the things that's so great about the show  is that you'll actually learn a few things.  This is bad, worst DDoS attack I've ever seen.  DDoS attacks are a bunch of hackers getting together  to overload a system to take it down for, you know,  a temporary amount of time.  It's a flood of traffic.  We're sending signals over wires,  and if you have too many signals at the same time,  the real signal can't get through.  Tried to reboot the servers, but they're not coming back up.  Dude, someone is straight up finger blasting  their entire network right now.  I've learned quite a bit, maybe too much.  It's kind of scary, mm, what I'm capable of these days.  For the creators and fans alike,  there's an appreciation that the realism  lies in the details.  People are screen-capturing the images  on the computer screens,  and looking at them to see if they're real.  And they are real, and that takes a lot of time.  One screenshot that was shown, I think,  for less than a second took somebody over ten hours of work  to make that an authentic load-up sequence.  All of the screens are designed, essentially, by me,  and I work with animators to achieve those  and make sure that they're technically accurate.  I think details like that  really enriches and deepens the world.  It makes the show this almost alternate reality  that's not too detached from our own.  More than just imagery,  "Mr. Robot's" realism extends to the schemes and methods  that are currently in use by the hacking community.  Their ability to infiltrate and alter a physical environment  was illustrated by the Steel Mountain hack,  a scenario that closely paralleled  one of history's most famous cyber attacks, Stuxnet.  The US and Israel had a joint operation  where they created an amazingly complex program  that hacked into the computers  controlling the speed with which  centrifuges were spinning in the plant in Iran  that was enriching uranium.  And about half of Iran's centrifuges were destroyed.  It probably slowed down their nuclear program by three years.  To think about the steps that are required  to plan that and then causing kinetic damage,  is incredible.  He wants to hack Steel Mountain's  climate control system,  raise the facility's heat high enough  to destroy all the tapes.  And you think sticking this behind the thermostat  will do all that?  From a authenticity standpoint,  if you wanted to hack a major corporation,  they would have off-site tape backups  at a location like Steel Mountain.  There. Deep in the Adirondacks.  In 145-plus acre former limestone mine.  3-ton steel gates, 24/7 armed guards,  closed circuit cameras, NOC staffing.  A fair amount of the plots and techniques and the hacks  and the approaches in "Mr. Robot"  are actually plausible.  The reason they're plausible:  it's 90% preparation  and only 10% execution.  There's a fair amount of understanding how  the other systems and the targets  that you're focusing on work,  and then having your, you know,  system and your hack ready  so that you can execute it, you know, when the time is right.  All we need is one security flaw.  Look at this place, man. It was built not to have any.  I see about six walking around.  Social engineering is one example of  a real-world hacking method,  and "Mr. Robot" illustrates it to perfection.  The social engineering component of hacking, I think,  is one of the most important aspects of it.  Taking advantage of that human element of security.  Bill Harper is our first exploit.  He isn't gonna give the search much scrutiny.  He'll get us to Level 1,  but Bill is not gonna be able to get us to Level 2.  And we need to get to Level 2.  You're gonna ask to speak to his supervisor, Wendy.  She'll get us to exactly where we need to be.  Then we'll be able to get rid of her from the van.  After that, you connect the Raspberry Pi  to the climate control system, and Bob's your uncle.  It doesn't matter how hardened your system is,  how great your security policies are,  what kind of software you have on your system.  There's always gonna be a human  that has access to information that's important.  And you can always find a way to manipulate that person.  People are all just people, right?  When it gets down to it, everyone's the same.  They love something.  They want something. They fear something.  Specifics help, but specifics don't change  the way that everyone is vulnerable.  It just changes the way that we access those vulnerabilities.  Great example of this is  Elliot impersonating a multi-million-dollar CEO  to get through the door.  I really think you should look me up.  It it just doesn't work like that.  I'm sorry, sir.  You impersonate someone that is in need of  some kind of help or assistance,  most of the time, they'll want to help you.  Mr. Sepiol?  Mr. Sepiol!  I have some good news.  And that's why Bill Harper is a perfect exploit,  desperate enough for the business to break protocol  and let me in.  Lonely enough to break.  They won't even know that they're giving you  some kind of information that will help you  hack their system later.  But it happens all the time.  Coming up on "Mr. Robot dec0d3d,"  we delve into the ethics of hacktivism.  If you feel that there is injustice,  sometimes the only way to deal with it  is to out-monster the monster.  Plus, we'll also discuss  what's in store for season two.  This is "Mr. Robot dec0d3d."  "Mr. Robot's" authentic portrayal  of computer hacking has alerted us to the real-world dangers we all face.  Now, we'll find out just how much we're at risk.  This is "Mr. Robot dec0d3d."  You're blowing up a gas pipeline.  The world is a dangerous place, Elliot.  Not because of those who do evil,  but because of those who look on and do nothing.  This is war. People will die.  C'est la mort.  I'm not killing anyone.  Tell me one thing, Elliot.  Are you a one or a zero?  That's the question you have to ask yourself.  Are you a yes or a no?  Are you gonna act or not?  Hacktivism is the act of compromising a computer system  or a network with a political agenda in mind.  One of the reasons for "Mr. Robot's" huge success  is that it speaks to the current generation's  distrust of our corporate culture  and to their frustration with the status quo.  But is taking matters into our own hands ever justified?  In many cases, hacktivism takes the form of  anti-establishment points of view.  The governments of the world and their corporate masters  do not want us to speak. Why?  Because we unlock truths.  We expose villains.  If you have any interest in waking from your slumber  and retrieving lost, damaged, or stolen memory,  we are here for you.  We have your back.  We are fsociety.  A lot of fsociety and the mask is obviously  evocative of Anonymous  and the Guy Fawkes mask  that a lot of people in Anonymous started to wear  back when they had their campaign against  the Church of Scientology.  Their declaration of war on Scientology  definitely served as an inspiration  for some of the content that you see on "Mr. Robot."  Corporate greed is a trickle-down desire  that reaches even the bottom of the food chain.  And for what? Wealth? Power?  What the shit?  It's a pathetic fable,  and you, Allsafe, are a defender of  Holy shit. fsociety knows us.  But your sweet dream is over  and your nightmare is about to begin.  Gideon Goddard, you are a lackey  to your corporate overlords  Someone shut this off.  Serving them, slave to master.  We are exposing your role to your world,  and the world is very angry.  I have a very anti-corporate, anti-establishment spirit  in me, and as much as I appreciate Occupy Wall Street,  I think as an adult I want to use that anger  to actually do something constructive and positive.  And I think, like, for example, the Arab Spring  is a good example where  they really kind of got empowered  through social media, actually,  through technology,  and really made change.  The Arab Spring is a really good example of  security in action.  If you're an activist in Bahrain,  you need your email, you need your Facebook account  to be secure, because if the government,  which controls all the Internet infrastructure,  can get in, that's it, you're done.  They're gonna take come to your house  and put a bag over your head  and no one will ever see you again.  Now whatever it is you think you're doing  freeing the world, freeing the masses,  the guys I work for, they ain't motivated by  "Kumbaya" shit like that.  Right and wrong is relative,  and it comes down to your own ideology,  your own moral compass,  and whether or not you feel passionate enough about that  to act on it.  How come I'm not in trouble?  Even though what you did was wrong,  you're still a good kid.  And that guy was a prick.  Sometimes that matters more.  I think the reason it thematically resonates  with people when you're watching a show like "Mr. Robot,"  if the antagonist is strong enough  or if you feel that there is injustice  coming from the antagonist,  if there's an injustice in the world  sometimes the only way to deal with it  is to out-monster the monster.  Fernando Vera, Shayla's supplier  and one of the worst human beings I've ever hacked.  He does all his drug transactions  through emails, IMs, Twitter.  He can't be allowed to exist anymore.  When you break down motivations of hackers,  it's money, ideology, coercion, ego,  or revenge, and sometimes criss and cross.  In "Mr. Robot,"  Elliot's ideology is founded on  his desire to avenge his father's death.  This isn't even about my revolution.  This is more than that for you.  This is about how those bastards slowly killed your father  and how you wished he'd done something about it,  but he didn't  because he was a zero,  just like you're being right now.  It's just a basic question of, you know,  when does the good outweigh the bad and vice versa?  You know, the very massive ethical questions  that this show will pose.  We hope that you will forge a better world,  a world that belongs to us again!  We'll see if Elliot and everybody in fsociety  are saving the world or destroying it.  Coming up, could a small group of hackers  actually change the world overnight?  It's not a fantasy. It's not science fiction.  Plus, we'll show you what's in store for season two.  Amen, amen, amen!  This is "Mr. Robot dec0d3d."  Evil Corp, you have been owned.  We at fsociety will smile  as we watch you and your dark soul die.  USA Network's "Mr. Robot" is  groundbreaking television,  with cutting edge storylines,  detailed world building,  and uncanny parallels to current events.  Certainly a subject matter that has become  more and more relevant as as the year has gone on.  Markets in Asia and Europe are tumbling dramatically.  Numerous governments in the European Union  are now in a free-for-all.  So this is what our evolution  Looks like: a simple program,  a worm that can make data unreadable.  Is that really all it takes to kill the world?  But could the fsociety hack  portrayed in the show actually happen?  What would the fallout of such a hack look like?  So we have plenty of companies that kind of fall into that  "too big to fail" moniker.  It's kind of scary to think about  what the impact of a destructive hack against them  could have on on society.  You could wreck large sectors of the power grid.  You could take down a whole bank.  You could do a lot of damage.  There are some key vulnerabilities  within our national infrastructure.  People could actually take the entire Internet down.  A lone hacker really can do immense damage,  or they can do immense good.  It's just all in the motivation.  I think it'd be possible.  Are there ramifications to that?  Of course.  Are there ramifications to that  that fsociety and Elliot didn't even think of?  Definitely. And we're gonna get into that  in season two.  There's gonna be, I bet,  a lot of people coming for them.  You know, law enforcement's gonna be coming in season two.  It has to.  Season two of "Mr. Robot" will  go deeper into this amazing world,  as the characters deal with the repercussions of  the Evil Corp hack.  So we come back in season two  and the hack has gone through  and kind of destroyed the world.  The FBI announced today,  and we can confirm that  fsociety engaged in this attack.  Now that Elliot knows who Mr. Robot is,  it's very different from last year.  What he's trying to do at all costs  is to remove him from his world.  In the second season, the story really picks up  and and moves forward.  You know, we set up all the characters,  and now really in the second season we're really kind of  letting all those characters run wild.  We're really going into an ensemble sort of  version of the show.  We're in four or five different worlds  at the same time.  Just watching that struggle and seeing people  at the end of their rope still persevere  and continue to fight,  even though their back's against the wall.  In the second season,  all the characters have sort of evolved.  The world is very different.  Expect to be a little surprised  because we're going down a very different direction  than the road we went down in season one.  And Sam has got it really mapped out.  When I was reading these scripts,  and I was just saying, "Oh, my God."  There's these clues that you kind of strand together.  I mean, we were like, Reddit people  discussing with each other what we thought would happen.  He comes up with some crazy stuff.  I don't know what I'm supposed to do.  I'll tell you exactly what you're gonna do.  You're gonna start listening to us.  The world is a better place because of what we did, Elliot,  and you're gonna realize that one way or another.  Now here's what I need you to do now.  So what has "Mr. Robot" taught us?  Working with the tech advisor has got me to change the way  I conduct myself.  Someone actually asked me the other day  if I wanted to hack them, could I?  Unfortunately, the answer was no,  and I really wish it was yes.  I tend to be paranoid about my own information.  My drives, my phone.  The microphone you have on your computer can be accessed.  The camera, as much as people don't think  it can be accessed, it can.  I tell other people to tape the camera on their laptop.  Oh, yeah, put the piece of tape on your laptop.  Absolutely a must.  I was literally actually about to get tape and do that.  That's great.  I've infected my paranoia with everyone.
1 What is it about society that disappoints you so much?  Sometimes I dream of saving the world, saving everyone from the invisible hand,  the one that controls us every day without us knowing it.  What if this all went away? The city, the money, all of it?  Hey, kiddo.  Exciting time in the world right now, exciting time.  Tell me about your father.  He had leukemia, made me swear to never tell anyone.  Finally I got so worried, I told my mom.  I tried to hug him, tell him I'm sorry,  and he shoved me so hard I fell backwards out the window.  I was eight years old.  If you don't take this deal, you'll become like me,  losing everyone's respect.  I gave up everything for this case.  - I don't want you to. - I'm not working there.  They killed my mother.  If you want to change things, perhaps you should try from within.  And I'm gonna erase all the debts we owe.  Every record of every credit card, loan, and mortgage will be wiped clean.  What do we all do now?  Guys, this isn't about what we'll do tomorrow.  This is about what we did. They're free because of us.  Jesus, what did I do?  I told you we shouldn't have done this.  I'm a little concerned for Tyrell  because he was acting very strange last I saw him.  I know you're behind it, fsociety, the server, Colby, Allsafe.  You're one constant in a sea of variables.  No matter what anyone tries to do, I will never leave.  I will always be right here. Do you understand that?  They're gonna try and get rid of me again, and I need you to not let them.  Listen to me. I will never leave you. I will never leave you alone again.  I am Mr. Robot.  I've always told you we'd end up working together, Elliot, but still  I have to know, why did you do it?  I wanted to save the world.  (SOFT MUSIC)    Why this mask? It's a bit silly, isn't it?  (PHONE VIBRATING)  Wellick.  I see.  I understand.  James, yes.  Yes, I'm aware of Mr. Goddard's request,  but it needs to be removed this moment.  Can you escalate it?  Thank you, James.    It should be ready.  (TENSE MUSIC)    What is it?  It's happening.    It's almost as if  something's come alive.      (GLASS SHATTERING)  - Oh, my God. - This is your fault!  - It's your fault! - I'm sorry!  I'm so sorry. I'm so sorry!  What did you do, you son of a bitch?  - He's bleeding! - It was an accident.  God says there are no accidents!  Son, son, please talk to me. Talk to me please.  God help us, he's bleeding.  The neighbors are looking. This is embarrassing.  Son, son, wake up. Wake up!  God, is he okay? Ask if he's okay!  Can't you see he's not responding, Magda?  - It's your fault, it's your fault! - It was an accident.  God says there are no accidents.  I'm so sorry. Please call an ambulance!  Call an ambulance!  (MONITOR BEEPING)  As you can see by the images, everything appears to be normal,  which is good news  because there were no lesions  from the scan,  no hemorrhaging or bleeding,  mild concussion, a few stitches.  The forearm, however, is broken,  so that will require a cast.  - How much will that be? - Excuse me?  How much will the co-pay be?  Well, that's something  you need to discuss with the billing department.  - We'll talk about that later - Shut up.  You've lost your job.  We have no money.  How are we supposed to pay for this  on top of all your other bills?  Don't touch me.  I told you, there won't be any bills.  Mr. and Mrs. Alderson, please,  I'm going to have to ask you to step outside for a second.  I'd like to talk to Elliot alone.  Elliot.  Elliot, I want you to know  that you are going to be just fine.  Now, that was quite a spill you took today,  but I promise, you have a long and healthy life ahead of you.  Now, Elliot, there are just a few questions  - that I need to ask you. - (VOICE FADING)  (TENSE MUSIC)    (I Monster's "Daydream In Blue" playing)    Daydream   I fell asleep beneath the flowers   For a couple of hours   On a beautiful day   Daydream   I dream of you amid the flowers   For a couple of hours   Such a beautiful day   Time to get up.   Today started just like yesterday  and the day before that and the day before that  and every day for the last month,  a loop, my perfectly constructed loop.  This is going to be affecting our economy  in ways that are extraordinarily significant.  The FBI announced today, and we can confirm,  that Tyrell Wellick  and fsociety engaged in this attack.  They caused a lot of damage, and we will respond.  We will respond proportionally,  and we will respond in a place and time that we choose.  That's not something that I will announce  at a press conference.  At 8:00 a.m. my daily program  begins by having breakfast with my friend, Leon.  There's this one episode  where they go to this Chinese restaurant,  and they're just waiting for a table the entire time.  Like, they don't even eat at the end, bro.  He just discovered "Seinfeld."  Maybe I'm overthinking it, though.  And talks way too much about it.  It's really fucking with him.  It's really fucking with me.  But it's perfect for me.  I don't have to say anything. I can just listen.  God, man, that Kramer dude,  if I knew him in real life, I'd knock his ass out.  At 10:00 a.m. I help out around the house.  More broadly, though, this points to the need  for us to work with the international community  to start setting up  some very clear rules of the road.  Right now it's sort of the Wild West.  At 12:00 p.m. I have lunch with Leon.  And then there's this one  where they're stuck in a garage the whole time.  Like, what?  That's not a TV show, bro.  Like, where's the story?  It just makes no sense.  At 2:00 p.m. we'll check out a basketball game.  Hot Carla, the local pyro, is usually there.  She's become like my personal totem.  - Whoo, three points, bitch. - (YELLING)  I still don't understand why people like sports.  They get so emotional over the weirdest things.  But I do see the beauty in the rules,  the invisible code of chaos hiding  behind the menacing face of order.  At 4:30 p.m. I clean up around the house again.  There hasn't been anything like this in the past.  That's part of what makes this issue of cybersecurity  so urgent.  At 6:00 p.m.  I have dinner with Leon.  Though maybe I just  need to make peace with it, you know what I'm saying?  As you can tell, we eat most meals together.  Like, maybe that's the show's point,  that shit is just pointless, you know?  Like, life, love,  and the meanings therein.  I'll tell you, the human condition  is a straight-up tragedy, cuz. Word.  Like I said, I never have to talk,  and the repetition is good for me now.  It keeps my regimen intact.  Two days a week I go to a church group.  I don't get the rules here either,  but I need to keep socializing myself.  It's good for me.  Besides, these people seem normal.  - ALL: Amen. - Amen.  Do not get into a pattern  in which you are intimidated by these kind of criminal attacks.  America knows how to solve problems,  and when we work together, we can't be stopped.  A new future is ready to be written.  I've been keeping a journal.  It's the only way to keep my program  running like it's supposed to.  Such a beautiful day     See you in the morning.  And then I go to bed.  My mom has no computer or Internet access  to tempt me into the night.  All that's left for me is just ordinary analog sleep  ending the day's loop.  You might not think it's a way to live,  but why not?  Repeating the same tasks each day  without ever having to think about them,  isn't that what everybody does?  Keep things on repeat  to go along with their "NCISes"  and Lexapro.  Isn't that where it's comfortable?  In the sameness?  Why your mom?  Why her specifically?  She's the strictest person I know.  But you've attributed a lot of your childhood trauma  Better the devil you know than the devil  you don't, right?  Do you feel alone?  Darlene comes by sometimes.  Is there anything you miss about your old life?  It doesn't matter even if I did.  Why would you say that?  'Cause I can't trust myself back there.  Why do you think you can't trust yourself?  I'd like you to respond to my question, please.  Elliot, it took a lot for me  to talk to you after what you did,  but I agreed with the condition  that you were going to be more open with me.  I was very clear when we discussed  It's not that I don't trust myself.  I don't trust him.  (SOFT MUSIC)  Hello again.  Yes, I'm talking to you this time.  I'm sure you wanted to hear what I told Krista back there,  but I'm not ready to trust you yet,  not after what you did.  You kept things from me, and I don't know  if I can tell you secrets like before.  Friends are supposed to be honest with each other,  and you weren't.  It's gonna take a while to rebuild this relation  Talking to your friend again?  I thought we were done with all that.  Here.  Check that out.  Lots of nicer friends in there for you.  (SUSPENSEFUL MUSIC)    We can't stay here.  There's more work to be done.  Our revolution needs a leader,  and what are we doing instead?  Journaling.  Che Guevara is throwing up in his grave right now.  You think this is gonna get rid of me?  I am not to be gotten rid of.  This zombie act you're pulling?  It don't work on us.  This control you think you have?  It's an illusion.  You want my attention?  Tell me what I want to know.  Tell me where Tyrell is.  I can't do that.    Then go fu  (GUNSHOT)  (TENSE MUSIC)    Are you done?      What's next on this roller coaster  of a regimen, needle-pointing?              It is not hyperbole to say  we're in a grave financial situation.  All of this cautionary sentiment out there,  it's not just Wall Street hoopla.  The more I talk about it, the more terrified I become.  Fortuntately, the original plan that was put in place  was ineffective.  Most experts agree that this is not just a crisis,  but a very dire one.  Something absolutely needs to be done.  Even though the European Union has been denying that it could affect them,  this week we saw that they were wrong.  The banks cannot lend money that they don't have  so the economy is at a standstill.  (ALARM BLARING)  (ALARM STOPS)  And I'm just the messenger. I am telling you, folks,  this is what they don't want you to hear,  because a union strike on the Comet natural gas plant  will cause an energy shortage the likes  of which has never been seen in the northeast.  Without literal power we will have no power.  This is part of a strategy  to declare economic war on this country,  and they know it, they know exactly what they are doing,  and 2015 will be known as the year that America,  this great nation,  swapped democracy for dictatorship.  (PANTING)  (WATER SPLASHES)  (CLASSICAL MUSIC RISES)    (WATER RUNNING)  Ahh! Ahh! Ahh!  (CLASSICAL MUSIC PLAYING)  On television blabbing on and on and on,  telling people lying to them.  - Instead, bring honesty - (PHONE RINGING)  somebody who can explain it best.  because this "crisis" is happening.  Hello? Hello?  (CLASSICAL MUSIC BLARING)  Why don't you tell your viewers  about the Weimar Republic?  Because the similarities between them are disturbing.  (ALARM BLARING)  Meaning the end of the world as we know it.  (CLASSICAL MUSIC BLARING)  (ALARM BLARING)  Tyranny in the streets.  (PHONE RINGING)  - Hello? - Hello?  (ALARM BLARING)  - Hello? - Hello.  - (CLASSICAL MUSIC BLARING) - (ALARM BLARING)  That's right.  (EVERYTHING BLARING)  Stop!  Well, what am I supposed to do?  I mean, nothing is working.  Unplug what?  Everything is inside the walls.  That's how it was installed  when I ordered the smart house package.  (ALARM BLARING)  Now the alarm is going off, and it's freezing.  It's below 40.  I have a place in Greenwich,  but you don't expect me to  How long is it gonna take before this all gets fixed?  (ALARM BLARING)  (CLASSICAL MUSIC SLOWLY RISES)    (EVERYTHING CEASES)  (TENSE MUSIC)    The tracking on her phone is working,  and she's headed north as we speak.  How long you think she's gonna stay away for?  Long enough.    The collective result of these attacks  could be a cyber Pearl Harbor,  physical destruction and the loss of life,  and create a new, profound sense  of vulnerability.  As director of the CIA and Secretary of Defense,  I have understood that cyber attacks  I hope you don't mind I came.  Something wrong?  It's good to see you, Gideon.  You, too.  I know we didn't leave things on the best of terms.  Is it true? What I heard about Allsafe?  Oh, there is no Allsafe.  I've had to furlough everyone.  I'm hoping to get up and running again,  but everyone's telling me it's over.  Gee, I wonder whose fault that is.  Was that you or me?  Getting all mixed up, I can't recall.  Let me get to my point.  The FBI believes that I was behind the hack  or complicit in some way.  I've given them all the evidence I can.  I've cooperated every step of the way,  but they still keep coming at me.  They don't trust me.  In fact, I think they might be hacking my email.  I know someone is.  And now you're wondering who that someone is, aren't you?  There are logins from times and machines I don't recognize.  Because if it was me, then that means it was you.  How about it, huh?  Could you live with yourself knowing that you framed Gideon?  I keep changing the password,  - but it still hap - (GROANS)  Elliot?  - What's wrong? - Go ahead, tell him.  Tell him that you're slowly descending into madness.  - Stop. - What? Stop what?  There are only so many times  before my bullets finally  penetrate that thick skull of yours,  and as the blood trickles out,  so goes any sense of reason.  Round and round we go,  you not knowing what you did or didn't do,  our infinite loop of insanity.  If you know anything at all,  or if there's anything you can do to help me  I need you to.  I can't help you.  Are you really gonna let him take the fall for this?  Look at him, a scared, small animal.  Well, that's that's unacceptable.  Now he's doing what all small animals do when they're scared,  pretend they're bigger and scarier.  Look, if you're not gonna do anything about this,  I'm afraid you've left me no choice  but to go to them with what I know,  which, given the things I know about the day you left,  it's pretty damning.  Now, I'm asking you one last time  to do the right thing.  He does have a point.  He does know a lot, perhaps too much.  I wonder if I slashed open his neck right now,  would it be me doing it, or would it be you?  - No. - Yes.  I am going to go to them.  I'm going to tell them everything.  Do you understand, Elliot? Everything.  Truth is, though, right, it doesn't matter.  You start adding up all the choices  you've been making, they all add up to one thing.  You add up to one thing  me.  What's going on over there?  (TENSE MUSIC)          I'm not gonna lie, Gideon got to me,  but now is when I need the regimen the most.    After all, that's the whole reason for the routine,  to stay as sane as possible  until he's gone,  and once he's gone,  I can finally be the real me again.  No, not just that it's pointless,  but maybe  it just means nothing, you know?  Like Costanza says, a cold, random universe.  Bro, what's up with the  Nothing, man.  Gideon's gonna rat you out.  He probably already has.  Hey, you can't ignore this.  They have eyes on you.  This is how they work you.  I'm not gonna change my mind.  I'm sticking to my regimen.  Hey, I am not some tumor to be excised,  do you understand? The opposite.  I'm the organ vital to your existence.  Now, if you insist on keeping this up,  I'm gonna go from annoyed to hurt, and, kiddo,  trust me, you do not want to hurt my feelings.  How do I take off a mask when it stops being a mask,  when it's as much a part of me as I am?  (ALL CHEERING)  We keep fighting.  Like the world we unmasked,  we will find our true selves again.  Maybe after wiping away the thick, grimy film  of Facebook friend requests  and Vine stars  we can all see the light of day.  I know we haven't talked in a while.  Maybe you only trust me about as much  as I trust you right now,  but I'm gonna ask you to have hope for me anyway.  Just, please, have hope.  (BREATHING HEAVILY)  (ALL CHEERING)  (INDISTINCT CHATTER)  I'm gonna take a selfie. I'm gonna take a selfie.  You guys ready?  Yeah!  - We got the balls! - Whoo!  (SOFT MUSIC)      (ALL CHEERING)  ALL: Whoo!  We got the balls!  (ALL CHEERING)    Give me your phone.  - Why? I didn't post any - Give me your phone.    (PHONE HITS THE FLOOR)  (STOMPING)  Ahh!    We are in a war,  and we are on the losing side of it.  We are on our knees with guns to our heads,  and they are picking us off one by one.    Susan Jacobs,  the general counsel at E Corp.  You want to know what her nickname is  inside the company?  Madam Executioner,  not just because she could kill any lawsuit filed against them,  but because those lawsuits usually involved deaths.  These are the cowards we are dealing with.  (GLASS SHATTERS)  We have been on our knees for too long,  and it's time to stand up.  Make it a four-hour SDR if necessary.  Take surveillance detection stops.  Go into pharmacies. Run errands.  Disrupt data points.  No one takes the same route back here twice.  I don't want anyone burning this location.  Where is everyone else?  Don't know.  They were always half in.  What what you're doing here, Darlene, and what you're saying?  I mean, you sounded like George W. Bush,  for crying out loud.  Okay, first of all, that's low.  Secondly, give me some credit.  The speech is bullshit, but it works.  - It riles them up. - Yeah, to what end though?  You know, sawing off balls,  making protest signs? We were more than that.  I mean, we you know, we accomplished something.  We we took them down.  Then why does it feel like they're still winning?  That what we did made it worse, not better?  You know I'm right.  We didn't finish them off.  That's all there is to it.  People everywhere came out to support us mobiley,  and right now they need to know we haven't given up,  that we meant what we said about changing the world.  (SUSPENSEFUL MUSIC)      Don't be half in like the others.  This thing we started, it deserves more than that.    Have you, uh, have you seen Elliot?  That's not important.  This is everything right now.    Absolutely unfair, madam, absolutely unfair.  We were done with our payments.  Ma'am, we are doing our best here.  At this moment we cannot verify that you paid all your payments.  Absolutely ridiculous. I have.  I have all my bills right here.  I was never late on one,  and I also have copies of the checks that I sent  People have been forging paper records.  We haven't set up a system to verify these sorts of claims.  It took me three weeks to get this appointment, madam.  Now you're telling me you can't help me?  What kind of business is this?  I've been responsible for the last 20 years  in paying off my home.  Where's your accountability?  Yet, if the tables were turned,  you would have kicked me out of my own house.  You know what? Cancel my account.  I'm done doing business with you crooks.  You deserve what you're getting.  Ma'am, I can't say  for sure we can give you all your money  if you close right now.  Unbelievable.  I know what I have.  I just want to cancel.  (PHONE RINGS)  It's on my computer too.  I have the IT guy helping me right now.  (EXHALES SHARPLY)  (DOOR OPENS)  Sorry I'm late.  I was coming from my place in Greenwich.  I was on the phone with the FBI all night.  We can't confirm the sender,  but the email we received is authentic,  more than likely the same hackers  from the ransomware.  Unbelievable.  What are their demands, again?  $5.9 million.  (SCOFFS)  $5.9 million  to be delivered to Battery Park City,  9:00 p.m. tonight, no police.  If we want to pay the ransom, the FBI will not sanction it.  We cannot negotiate with these people.  Our techs are looking into it.  We'll find a way to decrypt it and get the system  How long?  Five days, tops.  Five days for our banking system to be down?  That's a lot of money down the drain.  I don't even want to mention the optics.  We can't afford this hack right now,  and frankly, I think we can find $5.9 million  in between our couch cushions.  It's nothing.  My opinion as general counsel is to pay it.  What's this other request they made?  "You must send one of your chiefs  and no one else?"  I think they meant one of our chief officers.  - (LAUGHING) - This is a joke.  Did they really expect one of us to go out there, hmm?  What are we talking about here? These people  are terrorists, pure and simple.  Unfortunately, I have to agree with Scott on this.  It's risky.  We have no idea what these guys are capable of.  So you think we should pay the ransom,  but you don't want any of us to do it?  We can get one of our security officers to go undercover.  Yes, and risk all of this blowing up in our faces.  No.  If we're going to even consider doing this,  we shouldn't give them any reason to do more damage.  (SIGHS)  I'll do it.  I'm Chief Technology Officer.  I qualify.  I'll do it.  (TENSE MUSIC)    If we're gonna pay these bastards,  I want to be the one that faces them.  (TENSE MUSIC)
1   (POP MUSIC PLAYING IN THE DISTANCE)  Anything?  Nothing yet.  (Phil Collins' "Take Me Home" playing in distance)              Who is that? Who is that, that guy on the bike?  He looks like he's coming straight toward me.  Okay, he's closing in. We're coming.  - No, wait. - It's too risky.  - We need to fly in. - Wait.  Are you from E Corp?  - Who are you? - Just making a delivery.  Please sign here.        - What is this? - Someone grab the biker.  - Grab the biker. - No, no, no,  they haven't picked up the money yet.    Mr. Knowles, we don't recommend that.  We should have our unit search it first.        Sir, are you all right?  Should we come in? Are you all right?  (PHONE VIBRATING)  Is that your phone?  You have ten seconds to do what it says,  or every Bank of E system will be bricked.  Sir, who was the caller?    Mr. Knowles, what are you doing?    No I,   I don't mind   Oh I,   I don't mind   No I,   I don't mind   So take,   Take me home   'Cause I don't remember   Take, take me home   'Cause I don't remember   Take, take me home   'Cause I don't remember   Take, take me home   Oh, Lord   Well I've been a prisoner all my life   And I can say to you   But I don't remember   Take, take me home   'Cause I don't remember   Take, take me home   'Cause I don't remember   Take, take me home   'Cause I don't remember   Take, take me home   'Cause I don't remember   Take, take me home   'Cause I don't remember   Take, take   There's no way.  We've already committed $900 billion.  It would be irresponsible if the feds sent more.  And we're not going to ask the government  to pony up the cash.  How do you burn through that kind of money  in 30 days anyway?  You have something right right there.  Finally you're seeing my point.  No, no, on your face.  The point is, Phillip,  we've already given you our burst of cash on hand.  We can't give you any more.  Well, we'll sell the T-bills to the Chinese,  and that money in return  will be used as a loan for our company.  Look, the real recovery program is months from being done.  The public is hoarding cash.  The housing market is grinding to a halt.  The big three are on the verge of collapse.  Everyone at the commission needs to see results  within the next three weeks  before we can do anything else.  Look, rebuilding our database  is the only solution to this problem.  This is not my opinion.  These are the facts, ladies and gentlemen.  Now, I've cooperated with you on every level.  I even have the goddamn FBI working out of my offices.  Janet, Mary, Jack, please.  Tell me you didn't ask me  to fly down all the way to D.C.  just so you could, what, hear yourselves complain?  You've got to resign.  We have no other options.  The President can't go to Congress  with a bailout right now.  In the fallout of the Great Depression,  FDR closed all the banks for a bank holiday,  and then he reopened them in stages  when they were reported to being sound.  Later, historians discovered what we in this room now know,  that those reports, they were mostly lies.  Nevertheless, it worked.  It worked because the public believed  the government had everything under control.  You see, that is the business model  for this great nation of ours.  Every business day when that market bell rings,  we con people into believing in something,  the American dream, family values.  Could be freedom fries for all I care.  It doesn't matter  as long as the con works  and people buy and sell  whatever it is we want them to.  If I resign,  then any scrap of confidence  the public is already clinging onto will be destroyed,  and we all know  a con doesn't work  without the confidence.  If this was the best idea  you could come up with for a win,  I shouldn't be the one resigning.  I have to head back to New York.  Let me know when you've locked up the votes,  and wipe your goddamn mouth.  (DRAMATIC MUSIC)        (GASPS)  Well?  You moved.  And?  Now I'm gonna punish you.  (TENSE MUSIC)    Ahem.  Ah, you know, usual, coffee, black, turkey sandwich  on whole wheat, lettuce, mayo, muenster cheese.  Already working on it.  You always take good care of me, Ahmed.  How's the wife doing?  She's good, she's good, thank you.  Oh, I haven't seen her in a while.  Where is she these days?  - Our daughter is sick. - Oh, that right?  That's too bad.  - Now, which one is she again? - Sally.  Sally, uh, the young one, right?  - Yeah. - Sally, such a pretty name.  Now, is that traditionally an Iranian name, or  Come on, lady, I'm in a rush here.  Jesus H, all right.  God, Calm down.  Well, I guess I should pay up, Ahmed,  before I get lynched over here.  (BOTH CHUCKLE)  , am I right?  Um  and this?  DiPierro, he's waiting for us.  Yup.  (SUSPENSEFUL MUSIC)    (INDISTINCT CHATTER)      (BEEPING)  (DOOR BUZZES)  When you look closely at the seams between order  and chaos,  do you see the same things I see?  The strain, the tears,  the glimpses of truth hidden underneath.  Why do they fight so desperately  to mask what they are?  Or is it that they become who they are  when they put on the mask?  Sometimes I wonder what you hide behind,  my silent friend.  What mask do you wear?  Or are you just as afraid as the rest of them?  Me?  Am I afraid?  Nah, man.  I'm different.  Hey, dipshit,  can't you see we need the ball?  (TENSE MUSIC)    - This ball? - Yeah, that ball.  What, you slow or something?  What's up?  Nah, I ain't slow, bro.  Go get your own ball.  - Yo, man. - What?  What's your problem, son?  - What's your problem? - You my problem.  You need to learn how to speak to people.  Oh, you need to have respect, son.  I got it.    Hey, I got it.    We're all just here to have a good time, right?  Yes, sir.  (INDISTINCT CHATTER)  Maxine's been acting a little off lately.  She really perked up when she saw you.  You a dog person?  Used to have one.  Oh, yeah?  What happened to it?  Don't have her anymore.  Hmm.  Elliot, right?  I'm Ray.  I've seen you here before.  You must like the games, huh?  They put Bradstreet in.  He's good on the boards.  Come on, boys.  Look at these guys. What do you see?  A lot of care and effort  over what amounts to a pretty shitty game.  What's Maxine see?  A bunch of dumb animals, can't think past anything  but getting a ball in a hoop.  What do they want you to see?  Badass homies  ready to kill if you step to 'em.  Question is  which is the truth?  Maybe all of 'em.  Maybe none of 'em.  Maybe truth don't even exist.  Maybe what we think is all we got,  which is why I'm a little jealous of Maxine over here,  'cause all she gives a shit about is eating and sleeping.  Ain't that right, girl?  (INDISTINCT CHATTER)  Not the loquacious type, I get it.  Me, I talk all the time,  but I guess you picked up on that.  It's cool though. Communication  is good for my line of work.  Takes a lot of it to run a good business.  But unlike you, when it comes to computers,  well,  I get them about as much as Maxine here gets E. E. Cummings,  so when I heard  Whatever you heard, it's not true.  I don't do that anymore.  Just tell him you'll help.  Try it once, huh?  Let that old feeling come back.  You know, this morning over breakfast my wife  told me I'd make a friend today.  Not many people to talk to around here  except for these knuckleheads.  It's cool if we continue talking?  No, thanks.  Damn, man.  That's some cold, brutal shit right there.  I'ma have to go listen to some Adele on repeat  when I get back home.  Okay, I can take a hint.  Come on, babe.  How long you gonna keep us in this analog nightmare?  As long as it takes.  Without my weapon of choice,  Mr. Robot is unplugged, powerless.  He'll try to wear us down,  but as long as we stick to the regimen,  he can't take control  no matter how much of an illusion he thinks this is.  I mean, it's a disgrace,  an absolutely disgrace police have not found this guy.  Not only does all the evidence  behind the Five/Nine attacks lead to him,  but he is the leading suspect  behind the Sharon Knowles murder.  I've said it before. I'll say it again.  The misogynistic blind eye by law enforcement in this  My problem, Stassi.  I hit her for a (BLEEP) reason.  She (BLEEP) my ex-boyfriend  Hey, "Vanderpump's" on. You want to watch?  - Another time. - You know what?  I'll walk away and let this be about you.  How was I that time? Did I do okay?  I didn't hurt you too bad, right?  You're spoiling it again.  At least I didn't break a couple up.  Do you want to go have a drink at the bar?  You know, I know the guy who works here  makes awesome mescal cocktails.  We used to bartend together back at this place  We're not to be seen together, remember?  That was our agreement.  (KNOCKING)  That's him, isn't it?  Freaks me out. Can't he wait downstairs?  He's doing his job.  She's still in the tub.  You said 2:00. It's 2:15.  Hand me a towel?  Go.  We can't leave together.  (INDISTINCT CHATTER)  So unfair.  She came out of nowhere a month ago.  Sometimes I see her talking to herself.  Oh, my gosh, you did too?  So weird.  Yeah, Melissa hates her too.  - (PHONE RINGING) - Shit, I got to take this.  I'll call you back.  I'm telling you, it's non-negotiable.  No one's going to let you  take that question off the table.  The money burning is a big part  of why everyone wants the exclusive.  Bloomberg, line two for you.  Except for CNN, which you guys don't want  I got to call you back. Hi, Foster.  I thought the deadline was noon.  It's noon now.  It's five past, Angela, and  Ryder's agreeing to the questions.  He's also giving us top of the hour and Kelly.  Price doesn't even like Kelly.  I'll budge on the time slot,  but I can't on the question. It's fair game.  Talk to the segment producer and call me back.  Angela, I already know the answer.  You were supposed to make this happen five minutes ago  Just call me back.  Call Markinson.  We don't want CNBC,  or Fox News, for that matter.  I think you should let Melissa handle this.  (PHONE RINGING)  - Done deal? - Not gonna happen.  Scott Knowles burning $5.9 million  is on the table or not at all.  We're going with CNBC.  They're sending a deal memo as we speak.  You know I would rather go with you.  You got to twist their arm.  Bullshit.  Did you just hang up on Bloomberg?  Are you trying to get fired?  Leave.  Excuse me?  Leave.  (SCOFFS) When Melissa finds out  Get her.  Go ahead and get her. Tell her whatever you want,  but right now get out of my fucking cubicle.  (SUSPENSEFUL MUSIC)      (ROCK MUSIC PLAYING)    (PHONE RINGING)  Fine, we'll take it off,  but we're talking about the bailout  and Plouffe's suicide.  I can't do Plouffe.  Then we're walking for real.  Segment producer is pissed that this is what  The guy committed suicide on national TV.  It's out of respect for his family.  Trust me, I'm doing you a favor.  You don't want to ask about that.  Please, it's been a month.  One question, and I have to approve it.  Hi, Melissa.  Bloomberg TV agreed to all the points  on the exclusive.  Foster's sending you the deal memo.  I need to get coffee before the staff meeting.  (BABY GURGLING)  (FOOTSTEPS APPROACHING)              (EXHALES SHARPLY) Sorry I'm late.  Coming up to the city was just a nightmare.  The tunnel was at a snail's pace.  E-ZPass is down again.  They're saying indefinitely this time,  but I cannot take the train in this heat.  It must have been in the 90s today.  Okay, sorry.  So?  I've decided to stay.  We agreed to discuss this.  We have for several weeks now.  Need I remind you I was against  you taking Colby's job offer in the first place?  And then even when you convinced me  that we should wait to see where it would lead,  we agreed it was only gonna be for a brief trial basis.  I think we were both clearly wrong about their motives.  Oh, I think you are being naive.  And I don't think that we need to have these talks anymore.  I like my job, and I'm not quitting.  That's my decision.  (EXHALES SHARPLY)  You never had any intention of leaving, did you?  I know you think they're pulling something,  but that's because you can't imagine anyone ever  valuing me as a real asset,  when the truth is I've done more for you and the lawsuit  than you've ever done for me or yourself.  I have value,  and even though you don't see it, they do.  They are barbarians in $10,000 suits,  but I see your resolve.  I know when to cut my losses.  A guy walks up to a woman at a bar.  He flirts with her.  He makes small talk,  but the woman insists she isn't gonna go home with him.  Guy says, "What if I offer you $1 million  to sleep with me?"  The woman's never had a million dollars in her life.  She stops and considers the offer very seriously.  The guy changes his mind, says,  "What if I change my offer  to a dollar instead?"  Woman is aghast.  "What kind of woman do you think I am?"  Guy says, "We already figured that out.  Now we're just negotiating."  (INDISTINCT CHATTER)  Are you alone?  (TRANQUIL MUSIC)    Welcome to positive affirmations volume three,  success and money.    You'll hear the affirmations repeated twice.  I will leave a space for you to either repeat  mentally or out loud.  Please use this on a consistent basis  to form new neural pathways.  Good luck.  I am confident.  I am confident.  I am confident.  My confidence is powerful.  My confidence is powerful.  My confidence is powerful.  I recognize myself as exceptional.  I recognize myself as exceptional.  I recognize myself as exceptional.  I will follow my dreams no matter what.  I will follow my dreams no matter what.  Come on, sit down.  (INDISTINCT CHATTER)  Maxine wanted to come over and say hi.  She missed you.  I think the damn dog  might actually like you more than me.  See that smile?  (CHUCKLES)  Even though we're technically not friends,  I told my wife we were,  was too embarrassed to say otherwise.  You know, you two would get along.  She likes to ignore me too.  Hey, man, I don't mean to be an asshole,  but like I said before, I'm all good.  (LAUGHING)  Sorry, I actually don't know why I'm laughing.  I though you made some joke I don't get,  so I usually just fake laugh at those,  but  really, I'm confused.  I thought we were on the same page.  About what?  When we spoke last night.  I don't know what you're talking about, man.  I didn't see you last night.  You really don't remember.  (SOFT MUSIC)    You feeling okay, chief?      That's what the control, the regimen, the journal,  my perfectly constructed loop,  what this whole thing's been about.  (SUSPENSEFUL MUSIC)    Last night till this morning,  while I was sleeping, I can't account for it,  a gap in my consciousness, and somehow he  What do they see when they see you coming?  And this is why I'm different.  Sometimes my mask takes over.  Why did you talk to him?  Because I'm gonna make you realize.  What?  What will you make me realize?  That they see me.  (TENSE MUSIC)          (LAUGHING)    (LAUGHING)  (LAUGHING HYSTERICALLY)  What's so funny?  We started a movement.  We were meant to lead it.  Now, get back on a terminal now.  Give me what I want or keep shooting me.    Tell me where Tyrell is,  or shoot me again  'cause the only one it's gonna drive mad is you  not me.      I'm late for my church group.  Peace.  This time targeting the Bank of E network  in an elaborate ransomware attack.  The malicious malware targeted the bank's computer servers  and spread to multiple branches  in North America, encrypting the data  and rendering the systems unusable  until a ransom was paid.  This more militant variant of the hacker collective  forced Scott Knowles, the CTO of E Corp,  to burn $5.9 million in public view.  Shortly thereafter pictures surfaced on social media  under the name #OPdailyallowance.  Now, this is considered a direct response  to E Corp's unpopular program,  which would lower their daily cash withdrawal allowances  for customers to $50.  Some stunt, huh?  Everybody's laughing it off as a dumb prank,  but these guys know what they're doing.  Who thought that hard cash would be this valuable right now?  We're reliving Black Tuesday,  the Great Depression.  Warning lights were flashing.  I mean, in the last two years  the Army Corps of Engineers,  the Energy Department, the State Department,  and the Office of Personnel Management  were all hacked.  The government claimed they were boosting security,  but what came of it?  The same as 1929.  Shit hit the fan.  An act like this changes people, changes society.  I'm just having a drink.  I'm sorry,  and I'm rambling like a fanatic.  Is there something else you want to talk about?  The beaches of Barbados,  espresso on Rue Montmartre,  sitting around a campfire in the Adirondacks?  I'm married.  I'm Brock  and I know you're Gideon Goddard.  - I watch way too much news. - God.  I can't believe I'm a tabloid sensation.  More of a diehard fan.  I got a smile.  I'm on a roll.  When did he leave you?  What, was that on the news too?  No, just your face.  It's obvious why they use you as their patsy.  You give off a very sympathetic  and honest vibe.  You're the perfect vessel for their lies.  Yeah, well, I don't I don't know  what to say to that, but, uh  I'll agree with you that it sure as hell feels like  there's something bigger than me in control.  Thank you.  For what?  Tomorrow I'm gonna be a hero.  I'm sorry?  You may just be a patsy, but you're an important one.  In fact, I don't think I've ever met  a bigger crisis actor than you before.  - This is for our country. - (GUNSHOT)  (ALL SCREAMING)  (MUSIC BOX PLAYING)    (BABY CRYING)        (PHONE VIBRATING)    And there shall be no more death,  neither sorrow nor crying,  neither shall there be any more pain,  for the former things are passed away,  and he that sat upon the throne said,  "Behold, I make all things new,"  and he said unto me,  "Write, for these words are true and faithful,"  and he said unto me, "It is done.  "I am Alpha and Omega,  "the beginning and the end.  "I will give unto him that is athirst of the fountain  "of the water of life freely.  "He that overcometh shall inherit all things,  "and I will be his God  "and he shall be my son."  (PHONE NOISE)  (PHONE NOISE)  (PHONE NOISE)  (PHONE NOISE)  Hello?  Is it really you?  Who is this?  (LAUGHING)  Bonsoir, Elliot.
1 How do I take off a mask when it stops being a mask,  when it's as much a part of me as I am?  - 10:00 a.m. - Amen.  12:00 p.m.  Life, love  - 2:00 p.m. - I'm Ray.  To stay as sane as possible until he's gone.  I am not to be gotten rid of!  I find you refreshing young, bold  exactly what we need right now.  The FBI believes that I was behind the hack.  Gideon's gonna rat you out.  (GUNSHOT, PEOPLE SCREAMING)  Something ain't right about this guy.  Bang!  I don't trust him.  We are in a war, and they are picking us off one by one.  (GUNSHOT)  Tyrell Wellick and fsociety engaged in this attack.  (CHUCKLES)  Bonsoir, Elliott.  (SURF CRASHING, SEAGULLS SQUAWKING)  (BELL JINGLING)  Ding, dong, ding   All right, man, explain this to me again.  Why are you taking me to an arcade?  Well, I'm trying to tell you, but you don't listen.  That's the problem with your generation  too ADD to really take in this world.  All right, all right, break it down for me.  Well, to really get it,  I got to take you back to 1924.  Husband-and-wife team, the Bedfords,  opened up a freak show/ dwarf sanctuary  on this land you're about to be at.  Dwarf sanctuary?  Yeah, they called it the Bedford Lilliputian  a whole miniature city  scaled down for dwarf and midget inhabitants.  I mean, they also had other freaks  like lion-faced man, limbless woman, shit like that.  But the dwarves were the big moneymaker.  Suffice to say, the Bedfords were a big hit  lines around the corner,  the biggest attraction out here in Coney Island.  Then one year, rumor has it,  the husband wakes up one Christmas morning,  grabs a large kitchen knife, slices his wife's throat open,  stabs his little kids to death, then slits his own wrists.  - Huh. - No motive was ever determined.  God.  Cut to the 1960s.  Woman named Mary Meghan Fisher decided to buy up the place,  turned it into an old-school arcade  pinball machines, Skee-Ball, the likes.  Called it "Games Games Games."  Shit, a bit on the nose, if you ask me, not to mention repetitive,  but at least it had clarity.  Mary Meghan even installed a little bar so she could get drunk with her friends  and shoot pool at night.  And so she did, almost every night  till one time in '86, she got so liquored up,  she accidentally fell off the barstool  and landed hard on the pool cue she was holding.  Oh.  Went right through her neck, clean.  Killed her right on the spot.  What in the f are you telling me this for, man?  (DOOR CREAKS AND BANGS)  Place remained dormant until 2000,  when Ned Bosham bought up the joint under the name  Fun Society Amusement LLC.  Ned wanted to reopen it as a classic arcade.  Now, why anyone would want to start an arcade in 2000  beats me, but Ned Bosham had it in his mind  that that's what he wanted to do, and so he did.  (CLICKING AND CREAKING)  About a year ago, his oldest son, Harold, wanted to sell it,  but Ned wasn't down with that.  So the oldest son, Harold, being simpleminded and needing money  for whatever simpleminded folks need money for,  decided Dad had to go.  So Harold stole his twin brother's hunting rifle  and shot Dad in the face.  Now, what Harold wasn't counting on,  considering he had never fired a weapon before,  was the kickback.  It kicked back so hard, he tripped and fell  out of his dad's 20-story window.  (HISSES)  By the time he hit the ground, his head opened up  like one of those Gallagher watermelons.  All this commotion stirred awake his twin brother, Clyde,  who, as he told it to me, was in his bedroom  catching some Zs when all this went down.  By the time he got his bearings,  he was immediately arrested for the double homicide  of his brother and father,  being the weapon was in his name.  And how do you know Clyde?  He was my cellmate.  This place made him crazy.  He thinks it's cursed.  (WHISPERING) Yeah. No shit, Sherlock.  Before I left the clink, he gave me the keys to the joint  and made me swear to burn it down  before it caused any more ruckus.  He swears it's haunted  believes it is the nexus of all evil in the universe.  You buy into any of this shit?  F no, man.  I'm too broke to be superstitious.  In a way, all this hocus-pocus keeps things clean  for whatever it is you need to do.  The public records are in limbo.  People down in county don't even want to touch the place.  I'm siphoning electricity from the grid.  As far as anyone's concerned, it don't exist.  Now, on the market, this joint would run you  about 5 grand a month, but since it's you,  I'll give it to your guy for half.  Come on, Mobley, don't give me that look, man.  You know how hard it is for an ex-con to get a job.  Money's tight,  especially with my mom's cataracts.  The bills are adding up.  I'm not here to rent from you, Romero.  I want you to work with us.  Oh, hell no, man. I just got out.  I ain't trying to go back no time soon.  Just hear my guy out, okay?  We need a phreaker.  Now, you know you're the best in the game.  Don't try to sweet-talk me, motherf er.  I don't need you to tell me who's the best in the game.  I invented the shit, okay?  Now, either you're renting, or I'm finding somebody else,  but I cannot get mixed up in whatever it is you're doing.  Man, this is a chance to get back at the system  that stole six years of your life.  This is a game changer, man.  Who's this guy, again?  He's, uh he's a little weird.  But, uh, he's gonna love this place.  He's got a thing for Coney Island.  You'll like him.  Actually, you'll hate him.  But he's a genius.  Best coder I've ever met.  And he wants to meet you.  How much?  Aw, don't smile. I ain't said yes yet.  Money's gonna be the deciding factor in all this,  and it's gonna need to be a whole lot to bring me back in.  That's the thing, man.  In a way,  this pays everything.  (DUSTY SPRINGFIELD'S "YOU DON' HAVE TO SAY YOU LOVE ME")  (DRAMATIC MUSIC)  What happened to the U and the N?  Oh, that?  That's a story for another time.    When I said   I needed you   You said you would always stay   It wasn't me who changed   But you   And now you've gone away     Left alone with just   A memory   Life seems dead and so unreal   All that's left   Is loneliness   There's nothing left to feel   You don't have to say you love me   Just be close at hand   Panic. Here it comes again.  Remember?  That sudden sensation of fear,  overwhelming fear,  burrowing its way underneath my brain,  making itself at home  You don't have to say you love me   Nesting  Just be close at hand   You don't have to stay forever   I will understand   Screaming in my mind.  Believe me   Believe me   Believe me   (STATIC CRACKLING)  It's good to hear your voice.  Where are you?  (FOREBODING MUSIC)  Not yet where I'm supposed to be.  But soon, very soon.  Protestors are taking to the street in massive numbers,  and police and community leaders  are at a loss as to what to do at this point,  citing that  And where is that?  I don't think that's a good idea.  You think someone's listening?  Don't tell me you're having second thoughts.  You don't want me to have to worry about you.  I need to know what's going on.  It's not safe.  I wish it were.  Oh, how I wish.  How I wish.  I think about you a lot, Elliot.  I think about that night  when we became gods.  That night  I want to know what happened.  (SUSPENSEFUL MUSIC)  Tell me what happened.  Like he said, it's not safe,  not on the phone.  I'm not gonna let you make me a prisoner  of my own paranoia again.  If you're not paranoid,  you need me more than you think you do.  We had a deal.  You wanted to talk to him.  I delivered.  It's not my fault he's loony tunes.  He really expects me to believe this?  Did we really talk to the most wanted man on the planet?  Why the f are you asking them?  You heard him. You talked to him.  I talk to you too.  (SCOFFS) What do you want, huh?  We had a deal. I delivered!  (BANG) What more do you want?  What I've always wanted:  for the panic to finally stop.  Shocking news from last night,  Gideon Goddard, owner and CEO of Allsafe Cybersecurity,  considered ground zero for the Five/Nine attacks,  was shot dead at a bar in Manhattan.  The suspected murderer surrendered at the scene.  The alleged gunman,  whose name has yet to be released  But it won't.  Described by law enforcement sources  as disgruntled, unemployed,  and having a history of mental illness.  Just don't know why you can't send me a new one.  You ain't even with E Corp.  Well, I guess I never figured  you were all in bed together like that.  How am I supposed to pay the bills  if my autopay stopped working?  (KNOCKING AT DOOR)  Okay, somebody's at the door.  Guess I got to call you back.  Uh-huh, like you give a shit.  - (KNOCKING AT DOOR) - Door's open.  Come on in.  Hi, Mrs. Romero.  Oh.  I don't know where he at.  Ain't seen him for a bit.  Probably downstairs.  You know how he is.  Just comes and goes, goes and comes.  (PEOPLE CHANTING INDISTINCTLY ON TV)  Rome!  Yo, Rome!  Where you at, man?  Rome?  (SNIFFS) Whoa.  What the f is that smell, man?  Rome?  (FOREBODING MUSIC)    Rome?  (OMINOUS MUSIC)    (WHISPERING) Shit.  (INDISTINCT CHATTER ON TV)  (DIALYSIS MACHINE BEEPING)  But has become a citywide epidemic for families as well.  Now let's check in with Jessie  for our five borough weather report.  Oh, thank you, Chris. I wish I could tell you  Got those at Mel's.  (CHUCKLES) Beautiful, huh?  Sad to see his shop shut down.  Mm.  Mmm.  Was gonna leave it to his nephew too.  Kid with the burnt face.  You know what I'm talking about?  What's his name?  Mm.  Can't think of it.  Anyway, with everything going on with the trucking,  Mel says fresh deliveries just aren't coming through.  'Sides, now that the allowance  is down to just $50 a day,  no one's spending it on flowers.  Hmm.  I swear, the only way I'm getting through this  is having breakfast with you.  Mets won again.  It's gonna be their year.  Yeah, I know.  I know, I know, I know, I know.  Ready, y'all?  (INDISTINCT CHATTER)  Pick up.  Ah, damn. Come on.  Can't never do it with that shit!  (INDISTINCT CHATTER)  Take it easy with that dosage, cuz.  I ain't your keeper, and I damn straight  ain't gonna be your reaper neither, you dig?  - Let's go! - Come on!  What problem you trying to solve anyway, man?  How do I tell him that someone I cared about died?  I'm fine.  You know, that's what you always saying, man.  So we're back to the morphine?  Don't listen, man.  What do you think that's going to accomplish, exactly?  It's not morphine.  It's Adderall.  This is your fault.  All of it.  Now it's time to get rid of you.  (DRAMATIC MUSIC)    When a computer gets hit with a kernel panic,  there's only so much you can do.  An internal fatal error  is hard to recover from.  I mean, listen to that:  internal fatal error.  Sounds pretty fucking bad, you ask me.  But OD'ing on Adderall was finally my way  of controlling him.    Do you have a moment, Mr. Alderson?  Is this the FBI?  Did Gideon rat me out?  Come on!  Help!  Help!  No! No!  (MUFFLED SCREAMING)    (PANTING)  (SINGING OPERATICALLY IN FOREIGN LANGUAGE)    This is a New Lots Avenue-bound four train.  (RADIO STATIC CRACKLES)  (INDISTINCT POLICE RADIO CHATTER)  (BRAKES SCREECHING)  (HISSING)  This is a Brooklyn-bound two express train.  Next stop is DeKalb Avenue.  (SINGING OPERATICALLY)  Stand clear of the closing doors, please.  (ELECTRONIC CHIME)  (SINGING OPERATICALLY)  Elliot and I both warned you  it was a liability he sold drugs.  God damn it.  Why are you being such an asshole?  He's dead.  Did anyone see you?  Just his mom.  What did you want me to do?  She was upstairs.  F, Darlene.  What did we do?  (FOREBODING MUSIC)    (GRUNTING)    (GASPS)    (GASPS)  (PANTING)  Where am I?  (SHOUTING) Where am I?    What are you doing?  What's that for?  What's that for?  (OMINOUS MUSIC)    No, no, wait.    No.  No!  No! I have them! No!  (MUFFLED SCREAMING)    (GAGGING)  (DRAMATIC ORCHESTRAL MUSIC)    (VOMITING)    That's it.  Get that Adderall out of your system.  Good boy.  That's it, get those shitty pills  out of your system.  (SPUTTERING)  (PANTING)    I have burrowed underneath your brain.  I am nested there.  I am the scream in your mind.  You will cooperate, my son.  I will make you, because I own you!  Argh!    (GRUNTS)    I will not be owned.  First, I want to offer my condolences.  Terrible news about your old boss.  I hear he was a good man.  Very unfortunate when bad things happen to good people.  Thank you, sir.  I've been pretty broken up about it.  Second, this interview that you've set up,  it's all wrong.  I want to do Fox instead of Bloomberg.  No preinterview, and I want final approval  of all questions beforehand.  I'm on it.  Mr. Price?  I think this is a mistake.  Frankly, Fox isn't where we should be right now.  Bloomberg is where investors get their business news,  and if our goal is to reassure them  Sit down.  (SIGHS)  Have you ever had dinner at Fidelio's?  No.  I haven't.  Used to be a dive bar years ago.  It's since turned into one of the nicest restaurants  in the city.  I know the chef.  He's very good.  I'll have Marcel make a reservation.  You've never had semifreddo  until you've had it there.  Okay.  I'll arrange a car to pick you up.  Saturday, 8:00.  And, uh, yes, you're right.  Bloomberg it's more appropriate.  We'll stick with that.  Thank you, sir.  I've noticed you always look at that  before you leave my office.  Perhaps you find it as fascinating as I do  How a man can change the whole world  with a bullet in the right place.  (LIVELY ORCHESTRAL MUSIC)  Oh, no, what does that say?    (LAUGHING)  Don't fall over.    You okay? You okay?    I don't want to go to sleep another night  not knowing you're not gonna be my wife.    (LAUGHS)  Oh, my God.    Emilia, will you marry me?    Next on "Million Dollar Listing New York"  Am I gonna be dealing with you  Alexa, what time is it?  (ELECTRONIC VOICE) It is 4:03 a.m.  That's it, not a penny more.  Whatever she says goes.  (SIGHS)  (THE HIGHWAYMEN'S "HIGHWAYMAN")  (ENERGETIC INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC)    I was a highwayman   Along the coach roads I did ride     With sword and pistol by my side     Many a young maid lost her baubles to my trade     Many a soldier shed his lifeblood on my blade     The bastards hung me in the spring of '25     But I am still alive     I was a sailor   I was born upon the tide   (SIGHS) Alexa, stop.  And with the sea I did   (MUSIC STOPS)  (ELECTRONIC BEEPING)  (WHIRRING)  (SNEEZES)  Whew, sorry. Something's going around.  Victim's mother's back at the station.  (SNIFFS) Didn't get much from her.  Down here.  (INDISTINCT POLICE RADIO CHATTER)  (SNIFFLING)  All we got on the victim so far is,  he's a known hacker with a record.  Got busted in '08.  Served six years for some small-time computer fraud stuff.  (COUGHING)  It's okay. I got gloves on.  Well, it doesn't matter much if you sneeze  (SNEEZES)  On them. Okay.  Tell you what, why don't you hold this still?  We're still looking, but it looks like he only  printed out these three sheets from the full FBI roster.  (SNIFFS AND GRUNTS)  (COUGHS)  We contacted everyone here at the New York office.  You're the first to respond.  It doesn't mean much.  Thousands of FBI names and contact details  were leaked a few months back.  Every hacker has this.  What are they doing?  Uh, it's Forensics.  We found his desktop unlocked.  Uh, once we're done analyzing it,  we'll send a full report.  Did you have them check if the ports were modified at all  before using them?  (ELECTRICITY CRACKLING)  - Whoa! - Shit!  Fire extinguisher.  (BANGING, INDISTINCT CHATTER)  (SIGHS) Well (CHUCKLES)  (COUGHING)  Here's my card in case you find anything else.  Thanks again for calling me.  I'd really talk to your doctor about getting a Z-Pak.  You really shouldn't be out here infecting your whole unit.  It's very irresponsible of you.  (IMITATING AIRPLANE ZOOMING)      According to the police report,  there was no sign of a robbery.  Someone was there  with the sole purpose of offing him.  You're jumping to conclusions.  What about that Allsafe guy?  That's two murders in a row  associated with this hack.  They caught the guy.  It was just some wack-job.  Besides, I don't really care discussing this with you,  given how easily you forgot about what we started.  What, because I don't care for stupid high jinks  like burning money in the middle of a park?  That stupid high jinks  is killing public confidence in E Corp,  which is exactly what we need to be doing right now.  We might be getting executed by the Dark Army,  and this is what you'd rather be discussing?  It's not the Dark Army.  They don't know Romero  or the two of you.  They only communicate through me,  and I sure as shit didn't tell them anything.  You're not the only person they've talked to.  He wouldn't do that.  The state Elliot's in, we don't know  (BANG)  Don't say what you're thinking.  You don't want to listen to reason,  that's on you.  But I'm taking off.  I'm not sticking around to be next.  I'm gonna stay with my buddy in Arizona.  If they wanted us dead, we'd be dead already.  Besides, if you're just gonna end up in Arizona,  then being dead isn't that much of a downgrade.  Ha-ha.  Then what do you suggest we do, then?  I'll talk to Elliot.  I'll hit you both when I get more info.  Until then,  stop spazzing  And be cool.  (SIGHS)  I don't trust her  or her crazy-ass brother.  You know he tried to pull a gun on Romero?  Think about it, Trenton.  They're the only two that talked to the Dark Army.  Now they're trying to tell us the Dark Army isn't involved.  What are you saying?  I'm saying we just committed the crime of the century,  and they're trying to cover their tracks.  And right now, we're the tracks.  A lot of life is a balancing act.  We're all just doing our best,  tightrope walking above that pit of ungodly pain  that's daring us to trip up.  Take money and health.  One isn't very useful without the other, you know?  Case in point:  even though you've been paid handsomely,  the physical condition you're in right now  kind of cancels that out.  And I'd like to say upfront  I'm very sorry this happened to you.  The guys I deal with, they can be ruthless.  Me, I'm more of a positive reinforcement kind of guy.  You know, I just happen to think it's more productive.  (SOBBING)  Nevertheless, that don't change what's been done to you.  The person who did this  will get proportionate retribution.  On that tip, I still need you to fix this thing for me.  Our site's been down way too long.  Good news is, once you bring it back up,  you will get your money,  and, in time, God willing,  your health.  That's all I want to do here  help put your life back in balance.  They keep emptying the Bitcoin wallets,  and the server keeps crashing.  I don't know how to stop it.  I only know basic network security measures.  You have to find someone who  who can migrate the site to another,  more secure location  and set up a system of hot and cold wallets.  Just  (PENSIVE PIANO MUSIC)  Please    (WHISPERING) Please.  I can't I can't figure it out.  (SOBBING)    I could try to convince him again.  Just because you beat a man's face to a pulp  don't mean he gonna know what he don't.  We're not animals.  We need to find someone who can do that migration thing  he keep talking about.  (SIGHS)  This heat wave is a motherf er.  What's the high supposed to be today?    What you looking at me for?  Turn on the goddamn weather station, let's go.    Can I tell you a secret?  It's been three days since I slept.  I'm up to about 200 milligrams now.  But that's not the secret.  He's gone.  You heard me.  He's gone.  (UPBEAT MUSIC)    It was so simple.  I'm way more aware now.  I'm way more focused.  And I'm feeling 100%.    (ELECTRONIC BEEP AND CHIME)  He's gone. He's gone.  He's gone.  The Adderall is working,  and f if this drug doesn't feel good.    I can even handle talking with people.  Yo, bro, he's like  Even Leon's stupid "Seinfeld" philosophy  is starting to sound fascinating.  So so he just he just  he just ran out of the party,  pushing old people aside?  That's so funny. Was there even a fire?  I mean, that's classic George, am I right?  I don't like this, bro.    Why haven't I done this before?  Damn, these dishes look immaculate.  (ELECTRONIC DING)    I'm pretty sure I even found God.  - (ELECTRONIC BUZZING) - ALL: Amen!  - Amen! - (ELECTRONIC BUZZ)  Amen, Amen, Amen!  Amen, Amen, Amen, Amen!  Amen! Amen!  Even the dumb basketball game is enthralling.  The ball goes into a hoop.  Of course.  Whoo!  Slam dunk!  We can finally be back to normal.  It'll just be me and you, my friend.  We'll dine together.  - (TAPE SQUEALING) - Maybe I'll read to you.  Or we'll just talk.  But the point is,  he's gone,  and now it's just us.  You're not buying any of this either.  Are you?  (FOREBODING MUSIC)    It was feeling good  for a few days.  It really was,  wasn't it?  But this is the fifth day of not sleeping,  I think.  Fifth  Isn't that a funny word?  Shit.  There it is again.  (STATIC SCRATCHING)  The overwhelming fear building,  the burrowing,  the nesting,  the scream.  (STATIC CRACKLING)  Stoob Dnalamit Gniraew eb Egroeg.  Dna gnihtyreve dna ogol eht htiw,  sdrawkcab edosipe elohw eht yalp yehT "layarteB ehT."  Eb ot tog sah tsepod eht.  I know, I know, Leon's talking backwards.  This isn't good.    (STATIC SCRATCHING, ELECTRONIC BEEPING)  Yeah, I know.  That's very weird too.  (ELECTRONIC BEEPING AND BUZZING)  (OMINOUS MUSIC)    My internal fatal error  (ELECTRONIC BEEPING)  From which my system cannot safely recover.  (ELECTRONIC BEEPING)  (HIGH-PITCHED RINGING, ELECTRONIC BEEPING)  (HIGH-PITCHED RINGING, THUDDING)  Kernel panic.  Day number six without sleep.  (EERIE MUSIC)  I'm crashing.    Next, my consciousness will go.  (MUSIC INTENSIFYING)    The panic isn't settling in anymore.  It's just there.  The scream in my mind is coming back.    (SIGHING)  You are likable.  (RELAXED FUNK MUSIC)  You are attractive.    You are beautiful.    CROWD: Revolution!  Revolution!  - What is that solution? - CROWD: Revolution!  Phillip Price, please.  Your party's here.  Do you want me to show you to the table?    Say the word   Say the word   (WOMEN VOCALIZING)    (MEN AND WOMEN VOCALIZING)    If you love   Love me, babe   Any   Angela.  Yes, come. Please, please.  I'd like you to meet two of your colleagues.  Gentlemen, introduce yourselves.  Saul Weinberg,  managing director of operations.  Hi. Angela. It's nice to meet you.  Jim Chutney, SVP of B.A.  Angela.  Phillip Price, master of the universe.  (ALL CHUCKLING)  (LIGHT PIANO MUSIC)  All right.  (WHISPERING INDISTINCTLY)  (GROANS)  Yes.  Yes, yes, yes, yes.  Because of the situation,  you have to pay upfront now.  (GRUNTS)  Well, a toast.  May new relationships  lead to new opportunities.      (PANTING)  Oh, God.  Alexa, when is the end of the world?  Unless it collides with a very large rock  or a future technology goes very wrong indeed,  Earth is most likely to be destroyed  when the sun swells into a red giant  in several billion years' time.  Right.  (ELECTRONIC BEEPING)  (WHIRRING)  (EERIE MUSIC)    I know you you want me to talk about myself,  but I don't  The Adderall's almost out of my system.  With that, sleep will return.  Any second now, he's gonna come back,  and my mind will be under siege again.  This isn't something, like, I-I  Mr. Robot has become my god,  and like all gods,  their madness takes you prisoner.  There was this  I guess I couldn't avoid Gideon's death after all.  My dam of guilt is finally cracking.  I want to cry, but I'm so high that I can't.  There was an Indian man working behind the counter,  and I made fun of his accent.  (IMITATING INDIAN ACCENT) And talk like this.  "Hello, how you doing?"  (IN NORMAL VOICE) And one day, he stood up for himself.  (IMITATING INDIAN ACCENT) "Sir, I must ask you to leave."  (IN NORMAL VOICE) And something snapped in me,  and I just popped him in the face.  I saw red, man.  I just I just kept punching him and punching him.  And I hated him so much.  He was Indian.  (CRYING)  But it was raining.  There was a thunderstorm,  and I remember stepping outside.  And the clouds parted,  and the sun came out.  And I knew that that was God  showing up for me in that moment.  (CRYING)  He forgave me.  Jesus loves you.  And this was clearly just a test.  ALL: Amen.  Elliot, would you like to share?  No, man.  My system's hung.  God can help you.  Is that what God does?  He helps?  Tell me,  why didn't God help my innocent friend  who died for no reason  while the guilty roam free?  Okay, fine.  Forget the one-offs.  How about the countless wars  declared in his name?  Okay, fine.  Let's skip the random, meaningless murder for a second,  shall we?  How about the racist,  sexist, phobia soup  we've all been drowning in because of him?  (PENSIVE MUSIC)  And I'm not just talking about Jesus.  I'm talking about all organized religion  exclusive groups  created to manage control,  a dealer getting people hooked  on the drug of hope,  his followers nothing but addicts  who want their hit of bullshit  to keep their their dopamine of ignorance,  addicts afraid to believe the truth  that there is no order,  there's no power,  that all religions are just  metastasizing mind worms  meant to divide us  so it's easier to rule us  by the charlatans that want to run us.    All we are to them are paying fanboys  of their poorly written sci-fi franchise.    (CHUCKLING)  If I don't listen to my imaginary friend,  why the f should I listen to yours?    People think their worship's  some key to happiness.  That's just how he owns you.    Even I'm not crazy enough  to believe that distortion of reality.    So f God.    He's not a good enough scapegoat for me.    Please tell me I didn't say all of that out loud.    Shit. I did.  (FOREBODING MUSIC)    (DOOR BANGS)  (LAUGHTER)  (LIGHT PIANO MUSIC)    (CLEARS THROAT)  Angela and I are going to have one more drink.  Oh, of course.  Of course.  Thank you for dinner, Phillip.  Mm-hmm.  Don't get up.  It was good to have met you.  Pleasure meeting you, Angela.  Now remember, come see us anytime.  We'll have lunch.  On you. (LAUGHING)  (SIGHS)  So  did you enjoy the semifreddo?  Was it all I promised?  Yes.  Excellent!  Absolutely. It was delicious.  Good.  And good company.  Jim's been with us for 27 years.  He's a Harvard guy lives upstate.  Three kids two in college, one in high school.  Company man through and through.  He's the reason we do our Toys for Tots program.  And Saul is the chair  of our nonprofit arm.  Good man as well.  He has grandkids, so he's  he's a little ahead in the family department.  Oh, and another thing they have in common:  they were both in the room with Colby  when they made that grave error  covering up the leak in your hometown.  Hmm.  Ordinary men  Capable of extraordinary things.  Our CFO has discovered that within the last two years,  both Jim and Saul have been engaged in some  nasty insider trading.  Thick as thieves, these two.  They like to buddy up on their white-collar crimes  a regular Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.  There's enough evidence in there  to put them away for years.  I should get home.  Your car will be out front.  Whatever you're doing, I don't trust it.  You're panicking right now.  I understand.  It's a big decision you're making,  because these men,  their lives will be destroyed.  But the minute you remove emotion from this  You'll do just fine.  (INDISTINCT CHATTER)  Heard you had an interesting night.  Chaplain's an old friend.  I threw it out for a reason.  I figured you might want it  for down the road.  Trust me, I've been there.  (CLEARS THROAT)  Five years,  seven months, three weeks,  and two days ago,  my wife passed away.  A few weeks of being frozen in my own grief,  I woke up one morning,  fixed myself breakfast like I normally do,  plugged myself into my dialysis machine  like I normally do,  and started talking  out loud.  For a second, I thought I was crazy.  Moved on with the day.  Then the next day, I did it again  talked out loud  and the next.  And then I realized who I was talking to.  Why are you telling me all of this?  'Cause you and me  are a lot more alike than you think, Elliot.  (KNOCKING ON THE DOOR)  (KNOCKING ON THE DOOR)  Are you crazy?  How the hell you knocking on my door this early?  I'm sorry, Mrs. Romero.  I'm Dominique DiPierro with the FBI.  I'm assisting Homicide on your son's case.  I know it's early, but I just had a few more questions  about your son's murder.  I already talked to the police!  I know the cops took all your joints.  I looked through your files.  I also know you have arthritis  and probably can't roll 'em yourself,  so I'm guessing your son did.  I can help roll 'em for you if you'd like.  Used to do it all the time for my kid brother  back in high school.  He always told me I was pretty bomb at it.  (DOOR CLICKS OPEN)  All right!  You can come on in.  Mmm.  Yeah, it's tight.  Not perfect,  but definitely doable.  Yeah, it's not as fat as my dear Leslie's.  That boy wasn't around much,  but he was always doing for me.  Always.  God bless him.  I see you're moving out.  Ah, yeah.  I can't stay here no more.  I raised Leslie here,  Huh. Too many memories here.  Did he go anywhere or do anything suspicious?  Any small detail could help.  Well, he be fooling around with those computers.  You guys know that.  He always did that since he was little.  I never understood it.  Gobbledygook, if you ask me.  Did he have any friends?  Did anyone ever come to the house?  Friends?  Leslie didn't have no friends,  except that chubby boy.  (COUGHING)  You mind if you get me  grab me a glass of water?  Should be some in the boxes.  Oh, yeah, of course.  That's right, you told the cops someone did come,  but you didn't see him, right?  Nope, not with these cataracts.  I can barely make you out from my cat.  Where is that thing, anyway?  Probably ran off like everyone else.  (TENSE MUSIC)  Did he say his name?  Have you seen him before?  Nope.  My mind was dancing in the clouds.  All I know is, I can't live here no more.    Now that I don't owe anymore on the place,  maybe I can just rent it.  Yeah. Man.  Besides, I need the money.    $19 million.  (CHEERS AND APPLAUSE ON TV)  (DRAMATIC MUSIC)    What do I do?  Why did you start writing that journal in the first place?  I thought it was the right answer.  The right answer to what?  Controlling my life.  (SIGHS) My wife  well, she drove her car that day.  She did everything right.  She always wore her seat belt,  hands at 10:00 and 2:00.  She was the most perfect driver I'd ever met.  (LAUGHING) It was it was annoying.  She stayed in the lines.  Never went above or below the speed limit.  Stopped at traffic signs.  She followed every rule.  And then one day, none of that mattered.  Control is about as real  as a one-legged unicorn taking a leak  at the end of a double rainbow.  Then what do we have?  You know that bullshit people say about how  when you fall,  you got to get up?  I reject that shit, man.  You know why?  The whole thing is a fall.  It can't help but be.  A perpetual state of grasping in the dark.  It's not about getting up.  It's about stumbling,  stumbling in the right direction.  It's the only true way to move forward.  Whoever it is you wrote about in your journal,  do you still see him?  I can tell the person you're writing about  meant something to you.  Sometimes he takes over?  That's why you don't remember things?  I shouldn't have come.  I don't want to talk about this.  Yes, you do.  'Cause you're smart enough to know  that keeping this inside  isn't going to last.  You play chess?  I've been looking for a good adversary.  Want to play?  (SOMBER MUSIC)    What do you think?  Is Ray right?    Maybe it's not about avoiding the crash.    But it's about setting a breakpoint  to find the flaw in the code,  fix it, and carry on  until we hit the next flaw  the quest to keep going,  to always fight for footing.    Maybe we're all just stumbling from the right questions  to the wrong answers    Or from the right answers to the wrong questions.  It doesn't matter where you go  or where you come from,  as long as you keep stumbling.    Maybe that's all it takes.  Maybe that's as good as it gets.    You got to be fucking kidding me.  (MUSIC SWELLS)  (SURF CRASHING, SEAGULLS SQUAWKING)
1   You guys are acting like  we're walking towards doomsday here.  It does say, "End of the world party."  (CROWD CHANTING)  - He's dead. - Did anyone see you?  We started a movement!  Get back on a terminal now!  We need to find someone who can do that  migration thing he keep talking about.  You play chess?  I'm looking for a good adversary.  Sharon, how do you not blow your brains out  being married to him?  Do you want to go have a drink?  We're not to be seen together  You've been parked in the lot for the past two days.  How long have you been asleep?  There she is a ray of sunshine  in the dark void of my existence.  Washington Township toxic waste scandal.  You want to take Internet gossip to federal court  and throw it at the strongest conglomerate  in the history of civilization.  Jim and Saul were both in the room with Colby  covering up the leak in your hometown.  Their lives will be destroyed.  The minute you remove emotion from this,  you'll do just fine.  (KNOCKING AT DOOR)  (KNOCKING AT DOOR)  (KNOCKING AT DOOR)  (LIGHT TAPPING AT DOOR)  (BANGING AT DOOR)  Trick-or-treat?  Found it in a 99 shop in Chinatown.  I didn't know they actually made a mask  from that movie, did you?  When'd you get back to the city?  Well, it's Halloween.  Seeing as though that used to be our thing,  I thought I'd hit you up.  "Great, Darlene, haven't seen you in a long time either.  I'd love to hang out."  Next time you should call first.  I'm going out.  (LAUGHS) Come on.  You don't go out.  I don't mean that in a cunty way.  I just mean, you know,  you're you.  Look, if this is you needing a place to stay,  then you can crash on the couch.  Init 1.  I wouldn't say that if I wasn't being serious.  Please.  Hang out with me tonight.  For real. I need this.  Do you have to wear that grody old mask?  - It's totally nasty. - It's father's.  He wore it on his yacht five New Years ago.  We were a mile off Catalina?  Duh, it was the night uncle Conrad threw himself overboard.  All because Dad got the business.  Boo-hoo.  I mean, clearly what the film is doing is debunking the notion  that American society is classless.  Meritocracy my ass.  Long live the oligarchy!  Whatever, can you just take the mask off?  It's freaking me out.  God.  It's like us and the three seeders are the only idiots  to actually watch this thing growing up.  This is definitely the root  of all our psychological dysfunction.  - Fashionably late. - Screw that.  I hate our friends.  You still having them?  Why is that always your go-to with me?  I mean, trust me, in this day and age,  it's sicker not having panic attacks.  Since when did pretending everything's okay  suddenly become the almighty norm?  (ROCK MUSIC)  I can write you a check.    Okay, I don't normally say this,  but I have got to Instagram this.  People need to know this movie exists.  (SCREAMING)  I'm really into papadam these days.  What about you? You want to do Indian?  I hacked Postmates' proxy that supports the APN  for my boyfriend's cell carrier.  Now it does a URL rewrite and sends every postmates.com  request to my affiliate link,  meaning I get $10 coupons  every time a sucker orders anything.  What's your deal?  That lame infosec gig scared you straight?  No, man.  Got fired.  Now I'm seeing a shrink.  Hold the fuck up.  What does a shrink have to do with this?  I was on this project, pen testing.  Kept finding holes in the system.  Wasn't my fault they sucked, but it was my job  to keep hacking till it was hacker-proof.  I think it was the night of Memorial Day weekend.  Everybody wanted to go home  to their parties, their clubs,  their vacations.  But they couldn't.  Because of me.  So when they couldn't lock down the servers  they decided to lock down my ass instead,  in the server room.  After a few hours, I fell asleep.  Woke up.  All the servers in the room were destroyed.  I didn't remember doing it.  Judge made me go to therapy  for anger management.  Guess it's official.  I'm crazy.  You want to know who's crazy?  Those Wall Street psychos.  Okay? You'll find something better.  Angela's trying to hook me up with a job at Allsafe.  You see Mom?  Not really. You?  Fuck no.  She still shits on Dad every time I talk to her.  I wish I remembered him better.  You want to see something?  (DRAMATIC MUSIC)    Holy shit.  Is this    Put it on.  Put it on.    Oh, yeah okay, wait.    Put this on too.    Why?  Because I asked you to.    (LAUGHS)  Maybe I should take the job at Allsafe.  I could be a Trojan horse.    Be a good way to take them down.  Who?    Evil Corp.    Okay. (LAUGHING)    I can't tell if you're joking behind that mask.    With the right access,  install the right malware    Trash their backups,  we could corrupt all their data.  I bet it wouldn't even be that hard.  No.  No, the hard part would be after,  during the fallout.  That's the key.  The follow through.  They'd have an opportunity to reset,  rebuild their database.  We couldn't let them.  It'd be tempting to lay off them afterwards,  but that's when you have to go in for more.  The public's confidence in them  would have to be completely destroyed  in order to really finish them off.    That's the only way it would work.    Dude, you're freaking me out.    I mean, don't get me wrong.  Taking them down would  Change the world.    Is this something you've actually thought about?    You there?  (DRAMATIC ORCHESTRAL SWELL)   (HAUNTING CHORAL MUSIC)    God.  I will never understand why you did this.  Asking for help was never Darlene's strong suit.  But then again, is it anyone's?  An admission of weakness.  But you can't avoid the simple truth.  The only way to patch a vulnerability  is by exposing it first.  It's good for me here.  Better than back at my place.  It's cool.  I mean, I don't get it,  but I don't have to.  The flip side being that exposing a vulnerability  leaves you open for an exploit.  I have to tell you something.  It's pretty fucking metal though,  and I don't know if you're gonna be able to deal  after the whole Gideon thing.  I know what you've been doing, Darlene.  I see the news.  That's not even the half of it.  You need to stop.  It's too dangerous.  Don't give me that.  The things we're doing, Elliot  the things I'm doing to complete our mission  you'd be proud if you only knew.  We have something big planned for the bailout vote in D.C.  No.  No more.  We're on the other side of something  we never signed up for.  My boss was killed.  I mean, what did you guys expect  was gonna happen, exactly?  You thought everything was gonna be hunky-fucking-dory?  They'd go quietly into the night?  You said it yourself before we even started.  The hard part would be after, not the during or before.  (SOMBER MUSIC)    That wasn't me.    That was him.    Well, then maybe I need him right now,  because what I'm seeing in front of me  isn't helping.  She's not telling me something.  She wants my help,  but she's not being honest about what.  This is what she does.  I mean, the things we're doing, Elliot  This is her default.    (TENSE MUSIC)  All right, I'm gonna show you something in here first.    Found it kind of curious he only printed out  a few pages of the FBI roster.  Turned out there was a name on each page  from the New York office, including me.  Common thread among them  was that we all interviewed Gideon Goddard.  Still don't know what it means.    They were definitely stealing power.  They found a cable running from a municipal power source.  We're still looking into Internet.    The whole party was on social media.  You really like this place for our guys?  An arcade with the goddamn sign outside?  They're hackers. Brazen.  They believe in hiding in plain sight.  This is just  too stupid.  Well, what does that say about us, then,  that we're just now finding it?  We're bringing in all the people from these photos,  cross-checking all social media, Facebook, Twitter.  So they threw a party. So what?  Everyone threw one of these  "end of the world" parties that night.  What about the flyer?  We checked on the DJ name, Mobley.  Appears to be a DJ out in Vegas.  Just your average, middle-of-the-road player.  Nobody of note.  He was doing a show out there at Caesar's that night.  It checks. I'm not sure of the connection.  Why don't you just break it down for us, Dom?  What hard evidence do we actually have here?  Found this tucked behind  that "Mallard Murder" game over there.  How do you know no one followed you?  They think I'm in a yoga class.  Trust me.  He's very good at this.  This is no way to live.  They keep asking me questions,  over and over.  They don't stop coming back.  I promise you. You're safe.  I don't feel it.  I don't feel it.  I should have never agreed to this.  Kareem, tell me what this is really about.  I've paid you well every week.  What good is that to me if I'm dead, huh?  Look what happened to the Allsafe guy.  They could kill me too!  I should have never got mixed up with you.  I should have just came clean from the jump.  My husband will return soon,  and this will all be over.  Listen.  I'ma keep telling your story, all right?  But if shit goes down and I get busted,  I'm not gonna get locked up.  You feel me?  They lowered the daily allowance to 50 bucks a day.  That's no way to live; I can't live like that.  (SIGHS)  Speak.  Ma'am, we're running low on funds.  I don't know how much longer we can afford.  E Corp still hasn't released your husband's  severance package.  The FBI was specifically told not  to put a hold on any of that money  It's not the FBI, ma'am.  We can't afford to keep this guy quiet.  I'm done with this topic.  I place myself in alignment with the things I want.  I place myself in alignment with the things I want.  (SOOTHING MUSIC)  (MOUTHING WORDS)  I dissolve all false messages.  I dissolve all false messages.    My beliefs create my own reality.  My beliefs create my own reality.    All of my dreams are coming true right now.  All of my dreams are coming true right now.  (CHESS PIECE THUNKS)  Hmm.  Not gonna lie.  You could use some practice.  Your move.  You know the definition of insanity?  He clearly doesn't know who he's talking to.  Rather than repeating your mistakes,  you should develop your game a bit.  And you're gonna teach me?  No.  You are.  Take the board.  Play yourself.  Practice.  Who knows, you might beat yourself.  What's the point of that?  Because there's something on your mind.  It's been there since I first met you.  What?  Like I was behind the biggest hack in the world,  which also led to the death of my  I can tell you thinking about it right now.  And it burdens you.  No shit, it burdens me.  But I'm trapped by it, aren't I?  Look, I'm no Catholic, but I do believe in confession.  I've done some dark shit myself,  and it took real  cleansing  to get me through it.  I can help, if you want.  What you say to me stays here.  Talking doesn't really help me.  You can't keep the talking just in your head, bro.  At some point, you got to try to make sense of it.  What if I do tell him  everything about what I did?  Krista doesn't even know that much.  What if I could talk to someone about this?  Maybe he's right.  Maybe it could help.  Finally unburden me from  You tell him anything,  and I will personally find the tallest building in the city  and swan dive off of it.  Ray has a point.  I can't hold this in any longer.  It's eating away at me.  You confess, he goes to the law.  So what?  I'm okay with being on the hook.  I'll own it all.  And maybe it'll even stop Darlene  from doing any more crazy shit.  At this rate, she's gonna end up just like Gideon  What do you think the Dark Army's gonna do  with the knowledge that you're all turncoats?  There's no play here.  You want to unburden yourself?  Go jerk off.  This it's just a road paved  with your dead friends and family.  You need that game a lot more than I thought.  Jim Chutney, SVP of B.A.,  and Saul Weinberg,  managing director of operations,  were arrested in broad daylight at the E Corp offices.  Both men  Guys like this, they work in long games.  I gave you information he gave me,  and the next day you had these guys arrested,  which means at every move,  he has followed through on exactly what he's offered.  He's given me everything I wanted.  I have a nice apartment, a nice job.  He had no leverage against me before,  so he created it.  So you're saying everything he's been doing is  so that he can use it against you?  What about all that stuff you said about them valuing you?  You're the one that thought it was suspicious  that they offered me a job in the first place.  I am giving you an explanation.  He's trying to negotiate.  If he's creating leverage,  it means that he needs something from me.  The drafts of the settlement negotiations did you pull them?  Let's look at them together.  There might be something in there that we're missing.  I don't trust those scam artists  at E Corp's risk management division  any more than you do, so I can assure you if there  is something suspicious, our attorneys would have  I'm the thing that's missing.  There's something about me in that agreement.  That's why they haven't found it.  You want to settle this thing once and for all?  Hmm?  (DRAMATIC MUSIC)    (SIGHS)  One game.  I'll even let you have the first move.  A game to end all games  between us.  We play,  and the winner takes all.  Winner takes all of what?  (SIGHS HEAVILY)  Us.  You win, you can confess  to the JFK assassination for all I care.  I'll leave and never come back.    What would happen if I lose?  You lose,  I get to be in charge  once and for all,  and you?    What about me?    Remember the night of the hack?  Remember what happened to you?  All I remember is, I woke up in Tyrell Wellick's car  three days later.  And what happened in those three days?    I don't know.  That's what.  The absence of knowing.  Losing time forever.  A deep, black void  that you will never come back from.  No thoughts.  No body.  No memories.  Absolute nothingness.    You're serious?  You think I want this, Elliot?  This futile battle we're in?  Two halves at perpetual war?    I want peace just as much as you do.  Since we can't seem to find any common ground    Let's play for it.    What are you thinking about?  I'm thinking about his offer.  Is he the only person you interact with?  Don't worry.  You're safe.  Yes.  Elliot  do you think I could talk to him?  No.  Why not?  It would legitimize him.  At this point, I think we have to accept the fact  that he is a legitimate existence in your life.  That's giving him too much power.  In order for us to figure this out,  we have to acknowledge  What do you want from me?  You know everything.  You want me to keep repeating myself?  You want me to tell you that I see my dead father?  That I talk to him?  That sometimes I lose time?  That there are gaps in my life  where I don't know what happened?  That I'm losing my mind?  That I didn't even recognize my own sister?  That I don't know how to control this thing?  I don't know how to stop it?  Fine!  (WHISPERS) Yeah.  Fine.  I acknowledge it.  But let's move on to the part where you actually help me.  This game you are agreeing to is dangerous, Elliot.  You are agreeing to destroy a part of yourself,  win or lose,  so yes, this matters  a great deal, actually.  For better or worse, he is a part of you  that makes you you.  Annihilation is not the answer.  Krista's wrong.  Annihilation is always the answer.  We destroy parts of ourselves every day.  We Photoshop our warts away.  We edit the parts we hate about ourselves,  modify the parts we think people hate.  We curate our identity,  carve it, distill it.  Krista's wrong.  Annihilation is all we are.  I fail to see the logic.  Why put all your faith in her when we have other options?  Yes, yes.  We could blow up the whole Western Hemisphere,  but you know me.  I'm old-fashioned.  I always opt for the simpler path.  Occam's razor and all that.  Be that as it may, it is a slower path,  and time is of the essence, Phillip.  I want to remind you that closing the plant  is not an option.  And how many minutes have you allotted  for this phone call?  I didn't start this game.  You did.  I'm being pressured to resign.  Confidence in the market is at an all-time low,  and what are you up to?  You're not doing anything on your end to help.  I'm handling this.  Just like I said I would.  Have you spoken to the administration?  Mm-mm, we're not there yet.  President isn't desperate enough.  We need the pressure to cook a little more.  You assured me that the UN vote would be in full swing.  You're the time master.  You should know that while Rome may have burned in a day,  it wasn't built in one.  This will take time,  painful as that is for you to hear.                          Hello, Scott.  Why the fuck are you in my home?  Your housekeeper let me in.  There seems to be a problem with my husband's severance package.  That sounds like an issue for HR.  Yes.  I've spoken to them already.  Several times, in fact.  They claim they can't release it yet.  Yeah, there seems to be a problem for me, too.  I can't seem to find the person who murdered my wife.  Bureaucracy is a bitch, right?  You want my husband.  I can understand that.  And I would like the money I'm owed.  So why don't we help each other, then?  I'll testify my husband didn't come home  the night of the murder.  I left the party alone  didn't see him till the next day.  I'll agree to that if you release the severance package.  (LAUGHS DRILY)  I need that money.  I have a baby.  Tyrell Wellick's baby gets what it deserves.  Nothing.  (Brook Benton's "Rainy Night in Georgia")    Hoverin' by my suitcase   Tryin' to find a warm place   To spend the night     Heavy rain falling   Seems I hear your voice calling   "It's all right"   - (TIRES SCREECHING) - Whoa!  - Look out! - What the hell?  A rainy night in Georgia     (GARAGE DOOR SLAMS)  A rainy night in Georgia   It seems like it's   Raining all over the world     I feel like it's   Raining all over the world     (INDISTINCT CHATTER)  Taxi cabs and buses passin'   Give me your phone, or I'm walking.  Jesus fucking Christ.  Phone, now!  A distant moaning of a train   Go two blocks up and into The Looking Glass.  Into the night     A rainy night in Georgia   (Chromatics' "Into the Black")  My, my, hey, hey     Such an asshole.  I had to make sure you weren't followed.  What the hell are you talking about?  No one's following me.  The FBI found your arcade.  That doesn't make sense.  - How'd they even know - I don't know.  Maybe it has something to do  with the dead hacker they found the other day?  Yeah, I know about that, too.  Okay, you got to tell me, and tell me right now.  Is this Dark Army?  Look, I can promise you from the communications I've seen  that it's just it's no way that it's them.  There's just nothing in it for 'em.  What's Elliot say about all this?  He doesn't know about Romero.  He's in a fragile state.  We're past fragile, okay?  This shit that we're in has fucking shattered  into a million little pieces.  You got to tell him.  What are you doing here?  I wanted to make sure you were okay.  Oh.  Well, I am the fucking opposite of okay,  so tough shit.  Hey  You want to help?  Be a man and let me be upset, okay?    The king is gone   But he's not forgotten     This is the story of Johnny Rotten     It's better to burn out   There's more.  Than it is to rust   Our contacts found out that Romero was researching the FBI  when he got killed.  You know you're still inside me, right?  You got to understand, Darlene.  It doesn't look good.  The FBI is involved.  It's making the Dark Army nervous.  They think somebody flipped.  Okay, get it together, dude.  No one fucking talked to the FBI.  You can tell your pals to eat a dick, okay?  Now get off already.  Don't be this stupid.  They found your spot.  The spot is fine.  We did a full wipe-down.  They won't find anything.  Yeah, well, they have something,  and Romero must have found out about it.  He had a printout with a roster  of FBI agents on something  called Operation Berenstain.    And it looked top secret,  possibly heavy surveillance.    Shit.    Okay, what? What?  So that's it then?  They know us? We're under surveillance?  No, no, no. I'm not saying that.    I got to leave the city.  Wait, hold on.  If you or anyone in your crew takes off,  that's one way to ensure you get killed.  That will make you look guilty,  and we know the Dark Army's blanket rule:  they think the FBI's even snooping around,  and it gets ugly.  So just stop being a hard-ass for once,  and just let me help you.    How the fuck did this happen?  You seriously asking that?  Do I need to remind you what you did?  They called it the Good Samaritan Law  on the account, like,  you supposed to be helping people  if they're in trouble.  Like it was your duty and whatnot,  and if you didn't then you get arrested.  But yo, not only did the homies do jack shit,  they also laughed at this fat dude  while he was getting mugged,  and I ain't gonna lie that was fucked up,  but it was pretty funny, though.  You staring at this thing. You want to play?  No.  It's not for you.  So who's it for then?  Nobody.  You know, back in the Age of Enlightenment,  motherfuckers used chess  as a means of self-improvement,  'cause there wasn't no Tony Robbins DVDs back then.  This was it.  So what you playing for then?  If there's no who, then what's the what?  What's it for?  Existence.  Dope.  Some high stakes right there.  So what you waiting on?  What?  Do you dream, Elliot?  You scraping so hard  like you ain't ever asked yourself this before.  I said, do you want to be here right now?  And I don't mean, like, here-here,  but I mean here in a cosmic sense, bro.  Like, existence could be beautiful,  or it could be ugly, but that's on you.  How do I know which one's for me?  Dream.  You got to find out the future you're fighting for.  Sometimes you got to close your eyes  and really envision that shit, bro.  If you like it, then it's beautiful.  If you don't?  Then you might as well fade the fuck out right now.  You, me, in Madrid,  walking down Calle Atocha,  sitting in Caf Rollerie having a cortado.  I have some friends who have a vineyard on the coast.  They would love you.  Oh, during the harvest, everyone goes there.  It's beautiful that time of the year.  What's wrong?  (SNIFFLES)  Was it something I said?  Madrid.  Do you really think you'll ever afford  you'll ever afford that?  Well, maybe not now,  but, like hey,  once I get my DJ career going, like,  a lot of times  they give you free trips.  Like, for the jobs, and I  I can take you.  Derek, do you know why I'm with you?  Why I'm dating you?  You're a bartender.  You make $15 an hour.  You're never gonna be able to take me to Madrid.  You're never gonna be able to afford to take me anywhere.  (DRAMATIC MUSIC)  You won't be able to give me anything I want out of life.    But I've had all those things before,  and they never made me happy.  That's why I love you.  You're not any of that.  And I don't need you to be anything more than you are.  (SERENE MUSIC)    If I do close my eyes,  what is it that I picture years from now?  Like Leon said,  doesn't one need to understand that  before they're ready to fight for their existence?    How would my future fairy tale unfold?    Will I finally connect with those I deeply care for?    Will I reunite with old friends long gone?    See the ones I love find true happiness?    Maybe this future includes people  I'd never dream of getting close to.    Even make amends with those I have unfairly wronged.    A future that's not so lonely.    A future filled with friends and family.    You'd even be there.    (EXPLOSIONS BOOM DISTANTLY)  (CHEERS AND APPLAUSE)  (BUILDING CRASHING)  (CHEERS AND APPLAUSE)    The world I've always wanted.    And you know what?  I would like very much to fight for it.  In chess, help isn't allowed.  That's the beauty of the game.  You're locked into a set of moves  as determined by your previous choices  (SERENE MUSIC)  Your options dramatically changing with every decision.  There is no lifeline.  There is no external force at play.  It is a pure battle of two opponents,  or in this case,  one.    Stalemate.    Again.  We need a winner. Let's reset.  Remember when you first taught me how to code?  (SIGHS)  Not really.  It was a computer chess game.  You always told me you had to know more moves ahead  than the player or user.  Sounds like good advice from a good father.  Except for one thing.  You're not my father.  You're not even here right now.  Another stalemate.  What are the odds?  Let's reset.    Doesn't it make you sick that while you're here,  battling me, there are people out there,  hurting everyone we care about?  Everyone's hurting because of us.  We are running around in circles.  This will be the last time that we do it.  Been thinking about what you said earlier.  You can think all the moves you want,  but at the end of the day,  the moves that I'm making are the ones  you're telling me to make.  He's right.  There over 9 million different possible positions  after three chess moves each.  There are over 288 billion different possible positions  after four moves.  The number of 40-move games  is greater than the number of electrons  in the observable universe.  You don't need to know those outcomes.  You just need to be able to see ahead of your opponent.  But how can you when your other opponent is  you?    Stalemate.  Three in a row.  The odds of that are  Impossible.  Go again?  I can't beat you.  And you can't beat me.  We could play again, but  we will always be at this impasse.  (DRAMATIC MUSIC)    And you knew all along.    It was the only way to show you that fighting me  is a waste of time.  No.  No, we'll go again. I can beat you.  I can beat you.  When will you finally realize that I'm here for a reason?    (PIECES CLATTERING) This is avoidance!  Our fight for that future that you want  isn't with me at chess!  It's what you do out there with them.  I want to be here, Elliot.  With you.  I want an office on the 20th floor.  I want Melissa's job, and it's non-negotiable.  Go on.  I saw the pattern.  In every version of the settlement draft  for the Washington Township suit,  there was one small point that your team wouldn't agree on.  It remained the same, even from the original case:  That a third-party company must perform inspections  on the Washington Township plant.  You continue to give up power on all these other provisions  that appear to be a lot more expensive and important,  all in an attempt to drop this one small point.  I know why you had those guys arrested  and why you gave me this job.  You want me to convince the class  to remove the contingency,  and I'm willing to do all of that,  because you're gonna give me  exactly what I want in return.  Those are my terms.  I must say,  you are very impressive.  But I'm sorry, my dear.  This is all in your head.  Now, don't take that as a slight.  Always good to have dreams.  Wait.  I'm not wrong.  Go home.  Fuck.  Do you remember the first command  you ever taught me, and my computer kept crashing?  It was init 1.  That became our thing, and I am telling you right now,  I am fucking crashing, man,  and so are you, and I need your help.  I need you to get on the same channel we used to.  I wouldn't ask you this if it wasn't life or death.  Okay? We're in trouble this time, Elliot.  All of us.  I have no access here.  It's not as if I'm gonna go back to my place.  Well, it needs to happen ASAP,  so figure something out.  We might be owned.  What?  Why?  Well, I don't know, but we need to.  Elliot?  God, Elliot, say something.  (FOREBODING MUSIC)  Did you mean what you said?  That you wanted him, not me?  Did you mean it, Darlene?  I need to know.  I want you.  Only you.  (SUSPENSEFUL MUSIC)    Don't worry.  I know what to do.    Why are we back here?  You cannot do this.  You cannot confess.  This won't save her.  They're gonna destroy her.  Who won?  No one.  What else can I do you for?  You tell him anything, and it's suicide.  I am pleading with you, Elliot, just walk away from this, now.  I'm here to  to help you with that computer problem  you've been having.  I would ask what made you change your mind,  but I'ma quit while I'm ahead.  Hey.  Yeah, get in here.  Did you know  that Moses heard voices too?  Abraham,  John,  Paul,  Jesus.  In fact, many prophets confessed to hearing voices.  People like you  what you have  it can be divinity, Elliot, if you let it.  (DRAMATIC MUSIC)    This is what the last I guys told me I needed to do.    This looks like it's just a simple site migration.  As long as one of us understands.    I got this.    Elliot, before you get started,  something you should know.  My online business is very important to me.  I'm like you. I'm a private guy.  I prefer discretion.    So I'm asking you to help me  with the task at hand  and not to look where you don't need to.    Why is he here?  You need help,  something goes wrong  Lone Star will be here.  He's got my number and can get in touch with me right away.    Thank you again.    I know.  I know.  This is really scratching that part of my brain again,  but that's the part of my brain I need to start ignoring.  What's Darlene saying?  The FBI.  They found the arcade.  There might be a surveillance program.  Romero's dead.  (OMINOUS MUSIC)    What do you think?  Is Ray right?  Should I listen to the voice?  Does it make me special?  Like Moses?  I don't have many options.  My sister's in trouble.  Someone's closing in on us, and at least for her sake,  I have to find out what they know.  Maybe this is how I fight for that future I want.    What exactly are you doing?    I'm hacking the FBI.
1 We might be owned.  Dark Army.  The world's most dangerous hacker crew.  They think the FBI's even snooping around,  and it gets ugly.  They keep asking me questions.  I'm gonna keep telling your story,  but if shit goes down and I get busted,  I'm not gonna get locked up.  My husband will return soon,  and this'll all be over.  He wants to hack Steel Mountain's  climate control system.  (DRAMATIC MUSIC)  Take care of yourself.  There will be fallout from this,  and I'm gonna tell them  I used your computer,  so tell them whatever you want.  The server keeps crashing. I don't know how to stop it.  We need to find someone who can do  that migration thing he keep talking about.  You hack people. I hack time.    Someone's closing in on us.  I have to find out what they know.  My online business is very important to me.  I prefer discretion.  What exactly are you doing?  I'm hacking the FBI.  (DARK CLASSICAL MUSIC)    (KEYBOARD KEYS CLACKING)    Step one: identify the target and its flaws.  There are always flaws.  I learned that early in life.  My first hack, the local library,  a vulnerable FTP server in its as400.  A far cry from the Android zero days I'm using  to own the FBI standard-issue smartphone.  The library was a test to see  if I could even get into the system.  I've since set greater goals.  For instance, step two:  build malware and prepare an attack.  At my fingertips, the zero day is wrapped in code  like a Christmas present, then becomes an exploit,  the programmatic expression of my will.  I live for this shit.    Step three: a reverse shell, two-stage exploit.  The ideal package.  Load the malware into a femtocell delivery system,  my personal cell tower  that'll intercept all mobile data.  Similar to my first time,  when I found myself staring at late book fees,  employee names, member addresses.    Everything was revealed.  The secret of the perfect hack?  Make it infallible.  Hidden within the kernel is a logic bomb,  malicious code designed to execute  under circumstances I've programmed.  Should the FBI take an image of the femtocell,  all memory will self-corrupt, or "explode."  Step four: Write the script.  Why do it myself?  Because that's how I learned, and I know  exactly what, when, and how it's going to run.  I didn't do anything harmful my first time.  Just looked around.  But I felt so powerful.  11 years old and in complete control  of the Washington Township Public Library.  Today is different.  I hacked the world.  Final step: launch the attack.  Once I do, I'll own the Android phone  of every FBI agent in that building.  I'll own Evil Corp's network, applications, everything.  Domain Admin.  This, the thrill of pwning a system,  this is the greatest rush.  God access.  The feeling never gets old.    I'm gonna need to talk to the old sys admin.  The old IT guy,  set this up.  There's an encrypted database on the old server  I'm gonna need access to.  You wanna talk to RT?  If that's his name.  I'll talk to Ray,  see what's what.  (DOOR CLICKS OPEN AND SHUT)  (SWEEPING ORCHESTRAL MUSIC)  (KEYBOARD KEYS CLACKING)     (INDISTINCT CHATTER)      Jeez Louise, look at that.  (DOOR SLAMS)  (SIGHS)  What the hell are you doing here?  How did you get in?  Penetration test. You failed.  I'm done anyway.  What is this?  I haven't seen you in five weeks  and now you're just in my home?  Leave. Now.  Okay, if you want the FBI to find out you were the one  who illegally put a CD into a drive at Allsafe  that set off the crime of the millennium,  be my guest.  - He told you? - Yeah.  And he cleared Allsafe's logs to cover your ass,  but now with the FBI's Five/Nine investigation,  this could all lead back to both you and Elliot.  Why didn't he say anything?  Because that's what he does,  and now it's time for you to help him.  What exactly do you want from me?  (DRAMATIC MUSIC)    Before I tell you,  I need you to keep reminding yourself that this is simple.  Your gut instinct is gonna be screaming a big fucking no,  and I need you to suppress that instinct  and remind yourself that this is simple.  If this little preface was supposed to inspire confidence,  you're failing miserably.  I'll give you a small device,  which you'll take to work,  drop at the Fed's office on the 23rd floor,  and walk away.  Simple.  Here it comes,  that gut instinct I was talking about.  Are you out of your mind?  You want me to hack the FBI?  What possible good would that even do?  Once we have access to their system,  we can make all of the bullshit go away.  Any evidence they have on you and Elliot,  gone.  I'll take my chances.    Fine, play it how you wanna play it,  but I hope for Elliot and your sake,  no one else knows about that CD.    (DOOR CLATTERS OPEN, BELL JINGLES)    (EXHALES DEEPLY)  This is not our usual time nor place to meet.  It was very risky for me to come here.  Talk to me. What's happened?  (SIGHS)  I don't wanna do this anymore.  I lied to the FBI,  and they know it.  They're not stupid.  They saw me sweat.  Now my phone is tapped.  Anytime I make phone calls,  I hear interference, voices.  (BELL JINGLES)  (SIGHS) I mean, who are we protecting?  Some scrawny kid in a hoodie?  Part of our agreement was  that you would not ask any questions.  You're right. You're right.  I just  I know someone is watching me.  I can tell.  On the train, at work, in my apartment.  How do you know?  I just do.  I feel it, you know?  Thank you  for sharing this with me.  I promise you everything will be okay.  (ELEVATOR BELL DINGS)  Hello, sir. You can't be here.  - I work here. - Not on this floor.  Can you help this guy out?  We really need to close off this elevator on-beau.  Firefighters are already battling fierce blazes  I hate coming here. Security's so lax.  I'm still in the middle of this deep dive  on the hard drive reports that came back from Forensics.  I had that dream again.  Except this time, I was walking down a steep hill,  and at the bottom was that same man  wearing a surgical mask.  He never tries to kill you?  Nope. Just staring.  You really don't dream, do you?  Never interested me.  You read Santiago's email?  Let me guess: you're excited.  Fuck yeah, I'm excited. We get to go to China.  Yeah, well, just so you know, I throw up on planes, so  bring a raincoat and nose plugs.  Any updates on her?  Surveillance said she mostly stayed home  and then went to a yoga class.  Then they lost her again.  I'm telling you, it's hard to track people in New York.  Where's the she-devil?  Don't know.  Something's wrong.  Darlene's never quiet unless  Did the malware not check out?  It's Angela.  You need to talk to her.  About what?  With the FBI at Evil Corp, physical security is madness.  We don't have time to prep a new social engineering attack,  - so I went to her - She can't be involved.  What the hell else do you want me to do?  I am telling you, it's a fortress.  There's no way in there right now,  and it's as if we have a lot of time to wait.  - Darlene's right. - I'm not doing it.  Who better than someone you trust?  I'm not discussing Angela with you.  She's our only option.  She's not an option.  Think of something else.  I did my part.  Now you do yours.  Make this happen.  (WOMAN SPEAKING A CHINESE LANGUAGE OVER P.A. SYSTEM)  (INDISTINCT CHATTER)  (FOOTSTEPS TAPPING)  Minister Zhang, it's a pleasure to meet you.  The pleasure is mine, Mr. Santiago.  Welcome to China.  Oh, here.  (CAMERA SHUTTERS CLICKING)  Let's retire into the forum, where we can talk in private.  As you'll see in your escorted tour  of Beijing's backup facility,  our attack was not climate control  like your raspberry pi.  Our backup tapes were degaussed.  We'd like to visit  all four of China's backup sites.  Of course.  And be granted access  to the encrypted E Corp servers.  Absolutely.  Excellent.  Now  there is another subject to discuss.  We understand it is a delicate subject.  The Dark Army?  We'd like to review all intelligence you have on them.  It's just that  some of us think that, you know,  they as a as a known malevolent hacker group  might have  Of course.  We'll get you all of our dossiers  with any intel we might have.  You're schedule to visit our Beijing facility  on Tuesday at 9:00 a.m. sharp.  Enjoy yourselves. Take in the city.  Monday night, I wish to host you at my home.  A reception to celebrate our  collaborative effort.  (SOFT DRAMATIC MUSIC)    (METALLIC RATTLING)    (BABY BABBLES)  (BABY BABBLES)  (RATTLING)  (BASKETBALLS DRIBBLING, INDISTINCT CHATTER)  You can't just do it yourself?  No, not without access to the database.  But you're the best.  The master.  Ain't that true?  (SIGHS) You gotta understand.  I hesitate because R and I didn't part ways  on the best of terms.  Yeah, come on!  I wouldn't ask if there were another way.  You're wasting time, time we don't have.  You need to call Angela.  Maxine, what's wrong, girl?  Shh, don't make me think the worst now.  Is she okay?  (SIGHS)  If you say you need him,  you must need him.  I'll have RT stop by.  Son, y'all know y'all can't jump.  (SINGING IN DANISH)  (BABY FUSSES)  (INDISTINCT CHATTER ON RADIO)  (SIGHS) I tracked the last package  to the Midtown post office it was mailed from.  However, there's no evidence on the security footage  of anyone mailing it from inside the station.  It was probably dropped in a nearby collection box.  And I have a contact attempting to trace the phone calls,  but he needs more time.  I'll keep you updated as always.  Good night, ma'am.  And Kareem?  I did as you asked.  (GRUNTS)  (MUFFLED SPEECH)  (SOFT DRAMATIC MUSIC)    (DOOR CLICKS SHUT)  Framed burglary.  Cops'll likely go after  an ex-con who lives on the same floor.  MO matches other B&Es the guy's suspected of.    (HEARTBEAT THUMPING SLOWLY)  Tell me  tell me about his death.  (GLASS SHATTERS)  (FABRIC RIPPING)  Succinylcholine.  Injected as ordered.  And he didn't feel anything?  He was completely paralyzed.    (HEARTBEAT THUMPING SLOWLY)    It'll appear there was a struggle.  He pulled his gun in self-defense.  The attacker got him first.  Two gunshot wounds: one to the chest  (SILENCED GUNSHOTS) Another to the head.  Did he look at you  before you finished the job?  Yes.  Ma'am, if I may,  why drug him?  It would have been just as easy to shoot and leave.  Killing a man instantly  robs him of explanation.  He has no time to process his final moments.  Now, even though he was paralyzed,  his mind was still able to understand  why his life was ending.  (HEARTBEAT THUMPING SLOWLY)  We let him die with answers.  Otherwise  We're nothing but ruthless murderers.  Thank you.  (DOOR CLICKS OPEN AND SHUT)  (SINGING IN DANISH)  (TENSE MUSIC)    (SOFT MUSIC)    (INDISTINCT SPEECH ON TV)    - Hey. - Hi.  I gotta say, I never thought  I'd ever hear from you again.  I ordered you a Bud Light.  Thanks.  (SIGHS) You know, I'm  I'm glad we're sitting here again.  Our old spot.  You know,  booth over there by the window.  Remember?  It's where I first said the three magic words.  Yeah, no, I don't think I remember that.  "I love you."  I-I meant it too.  I-I miss you, Angela.  Thanks.  Yeah, a lot of lot of  lot of good memories.  And look, Josh Groban night.  (LAUGHS) It's like we're, uh,  reliving our glory days.  - (CHUCKLES WEAKLY) - But, uh, you, wow.  I mean, I hear things are going great with you.  I hope this is cool  and not, like, weird,  but, um, I brought my rsum,  if you can if you can do anything.  Well, I just figured, hey,  if there are any open positions  I'll see what I can do.  So tell me.  How's life over there?  Very different than Allsafe.  You miss it?  Yeah.  And Gideon.  Crazy sad.  You know, I heard the dude that shot him was,  like, off his rocker.  One of those, uh, Five/Nine truthers.  Some people even say that the whole thing was,  uh, like, a put-on.  Like a like one of those,  uh, crisis performances or whatever.  You know you know, those Frank Cody types.  Anyways, tragic for sure.  So you ever think that CD had anything to do with it?  Excuse me?  I'm just saying, like,  Allsafe was was ground zero.  What the fuck?  Are you working with the FBI?  No, it's  (WHISPERING) My uncle is a lawyer.  He told me to be careful and record any suspicious  - It's my uncle's fault. - What the fuck?  What oh, come on! (STAMMERS)  My contract was cleared because of the hack.  I can't afford a new phone.  Answer me.  Honestly. Right now.  Did you talk to the FBI?  No.  Yes.  I me I mean, Angela,  look, they called me in, like, three times.  I can't sleep. I am scared as shit.  - What did you tell them? - Nothing.  Just about the CD guy, and then they did,  like, the sketch or whatever, the facial composite thing,  but I swear, I never said your name.  Wait, where are you going?  Where  (INDISTINCT CHATTER)  This food is not sanitary, am I right?  I mean, where's the General Tso's chicken?  I don't think that's a formal hors d'oeuvre in China.  Yeah? I'm gonna ask.  (SIGHS)  This noodle bowl thing made me gag.  These people are savages.  Excuse me, do you know where the bathroom is?  Bathroom?  Um, toilet?  No English?  Okay, thank you.  (CLOCKS TICKING)  Pardon me, do you have the time?  Oh, shit.  Mr. Zhang, I  I was just admiring looking at  for the  Oh, right, the time 'cause of the  You've wandered very far from the party.  I was looking for the little girls' room,  and then I And this caught your eye?  Yeah, I (EXHALES)  I know it seems a little uncanny,  but my parents had the same clock  in our family room growing up.  I found this in Germany. The town of Rothenburg.  Cost me a fortune.  The seller told me that it was one of a kind.  (SCOFFS)  So much for the honest salesman. (CHUCKLES)  My parents bought theirs at a Kmart in Teaneck.  Oh, is that where you're from?  - Miss - Jersey born and raised.  And my full name is Dominique DiPierro,  but I go by Dom.  Or Agent DiPierro.  Or just Dom.  So if I can ask,  what's the deal with the clocks?  Is it a punctuality thing?  "Life is but a walking shadow,  "a poor player that struts and frets  "his hour upon the stage  and then is heard no more."  You've surrounded yourself  with the constant reminder of mortality.  There's much work to do, great work.  As each second passes,  I push myself to keep moving.  You're making me think I should invest  in a decent watch.  (LAUGHS SOFTLY)  Now, if I may ask,  how does a young woman from New Jersey  find her way into the FBI?  I was  I am  disgusted by the selfish brutality of the world,  but at the same time, I'm utterly fascinated by it.  The FBI's a perfect place for that kind of contradiction.  I have something in my office I think you might appreciate.  The artist strives to reflect the desolation and anxiety  that accompanies one's loss of identity.  His message is subversive to many in our country.  Nevertheless, the work appeals to the masses  and to the individual.  How is it that revolution can create such beautiful art  yet you and I are tracking revolutionaries  who've created nothing but turmoil?  There's more to the story.  I'm sorry?  FBI.  Why you joined.  What was it?  It's a little personal.  That's precisely why I'm asking.  Oh.  Okay.  (CHUCKLES NERVOUSLY) Um  Well, it was a certain relationship.  A love story?  Of sorts. Sort of, sure.  Final semester of law school,  dating who I thought was the one,  at dinner,  days before graduation  they got down on one knee to propose, and  This is gonna make me sound wacky,  but I  excused myself to the restroom and went out the back, and  That was that.  Fast-forward several years, I turn around,  and here's what I picked instead.  A mid-level field agent.  (LAUGHS SOFTLY)  - What is it? - I just  Uh, I never would have (LAUGHS)  expected to be talking about an old flame  to China's minister of state security.  - Ah. - (LAUGHS)  It'll make a good story at Thanksgiving.  My dad'll love it.  (BOTH LAUGHING)  Whose room is this?  Wow.  These are gorgeous.  A magua,  the common Manchu clothing of the Qing Dynasty.  Detailed embroidery such as this  was often reserved for the royal families.  This is a modern qpo  by Jin Zhi Yu Ye.  Purchased in Shanghai.  The silk fabric and embroidered lace are unrivaled.  Here.  (SOFTLY) Wow.  I've never touched something so beautiful.  I feel the same way each time.  Where did these come from?  They belong to my sister.  She stays here when she's passing through Beijing.  Let me ask, Miss DiPierro,  have you ever wondered how the world would look  if the Five/Nine hack never happened?  How the world would look right now?  In fact, some believe there are alternate realities  playing out that very scenario,  with other lives that we're leading  Other people  that we've become.  The contemplation moves me very deeply.  (CLOCKS CHIMING)  Wow, you weren't kidding.  You really do have a thing  I apologize, I must go.  May I escort you back to the party?  (CLOCK RINGING, CLOCKS WINDING)  (INDISTINCT SPEECH ON TV)  Why are you here?  Because I wanna be.  I told Darlene I didn't want you involved.  She was right to involve me.  Please don't do this. I'll find another way.  Darlene said it's a simple job.  I place the device on the floor and walk away.  Then you guys will make everything go away,  any evidence that you find.  That's true, right?  - Right? - That's our plan.  But that's not the point.  Don't put yourself at risk.  I've run through my options.  Best-case scenario: I lose my job  and plea-bargain down a jail sentence.  I'm backed into a corner.  Either I act, or I wait to get caught.  I told myself that I would wait to decide until I saw you  because you wouldn't let me walk into this  unless you were sure that you could pull it off.  I've decided.  I miss you. You know that, right?  I reached out to you so many times,  and you kept saying no.  Can I just know why?  I keep thinking about that day  on the train platform.  After you found me in the cemetery.  You told me to take care of myself.  I wanted to be okay.  I wanted to s-stop seeing him  before I talked to you again.  And?  And my dead father's standing behind you right now.  I can be a friend.  (SOFT MUSIC)  Someone to talk to.  Someone who cares about you.    Who knows? Maybe that will help.    How's Qwerty?  (CHUCKLES) He's good.  He's fat.  I think I'm feeding him too much.  (CHUCKLES)  This is the federal bailout.  All right, this is critical, and you're just  backing out of our biggest operation?  This isn't open for debate.  I can't go, and it's none of your goddamn business why.  I want you to lead the D.C. op.  You're being promoted.  Take the crew down to the Capitol tonight  and begin prepping.  You serious? Really?  Well, you've done good.  Now take charge. Act like a leader.  This is a very serious opportunity.  - You know the plan, right? - Oh, yeah.  Good. Don't forget the package.  (CELL PHONE BUZZES)  I can't tell you how much I appreciate this.  I'm not gonna let you down.  All right, I'm gonna do you proud.  - And they're gonna remember fso - Okay, just do your job  and stop acting like such a pussy.  I gotta take this.  Hello?  (MELLOW ROCK MUSIC PLAYING)  When?  There's an encrypted users database  in the marketplace directory.  Here, um, just  let me drive.  You gonna ask or just stare?  Okay, what happened?  It was a rhetorical question.  Just stare.  (SOFT DRAMATIC MUSIC)  This guy obviously knows his shit.  Why did Ray come to me?    Then you'll, um  transfer the archives to the local machine.    And then transfer the existing site  from the local machine  to the new server.            You don't know when to stop.  This is what you wanted, remember?  Me, here at a terminal.    Good to go.  Uh, check on it if you need to.    Everyone has their own  if/then conditional programming,  a situation where if certain conditions are met,  then a logic bomb detonates.  Everything blows up in your face.  Is this Ray's if/then moment or my own?    If Ray is running the site himself,  why bring me in?  Maybe he doesn't know the evil that he's spreading.  Maybe he has no idea what's on the site.  Ray is protective, kind.  Ray is dangerous, a criminal.  Are those his two halves?  Which side of him is stronger?  Is he sinister enough to host the  Stop figuring this out.  I wanna know.  (QUIETLY) You know.  But you're going to ignore it.  You wanna know why?  Because that's what we do.    It's not what I do.  If he's guilty,  I could destroy him  in under two minutes at a terminal.  Are we really back to this again?  Ray is not some coffee shop owner.  Forget what you saw and move on.  You're thinking only of yourself.  I'm thinking of us.    And I'm thinking of the people in those pictures.  I could help them.  (QUIETLY) We have other battles to fight.  (QUIETLY) What else is new?    A logic bomb explodes either at a set time  or when a specific condition is met.  And now I've met Ray's black market of evil.  Mr. Robot can deny it all he wants,  but I can't.  Can you?  (MUSIC BOX PLAYING SOFT MUSIC)    (CELL PHONE BUZZING)  Hello?  (BREATHING HEAVILY)      (SIRENS WAILING)  Tyrell    (AMBULANCE HORN HONKS)  (AMBULANCE HORN HONKS)  (DRAMATIC MUSIC)      (HORN HONKS)    (DOOR RATTLES OPEN)    (INDISTINCT CHATTER)    (CAR HORN HONKS)    Were you followed?  No, I don't think so.  Did you take the route I sent you?  Yeah.  Where's your cell phone?  At home.  No bullshit from here on.  Understand?    Oh, my head is pounding.  Way too much of that Baijiu drink last night.  Speaking of, where'd you go?  I got stuck listening to Jesse trying to speak Chinese.  He made a lot of people really uncomfortable.  Oh, you know, your average evening.  A private tour from Minister Zhang himself.  (LAUGHING SOFTLY) What?  Was he putting, uh, moves on you?  No, not like that.  But he did take me to his sister's bedroom  and show me her clothes.  - That's sort of weird. - Mm-hmm.  Even more so when you consider  Minister Zhang doesn't have a sister.  Nice look, Hollywood.  Thanks. I got myself all gussied up  - for the field trip. - (CHUCKLES)  - Where's Santiago? - On another rampage.  ADIC called with updates about the raspberry pi.  - Great. - Not great.  Turns out the guy who found it  smudged his fat fingers all over it,  smearing any possible prints.  - (SIGHS) - Another dead end.  When Santiago stomped off, he was threatening  to reach through his cell phone and castrate the guy.  - Fantastic. - (CHUCKLES)  Think I'm gonna need more caffeine  to survive the day.  (GUN COCKS, WOMAN SCREAMS)  - (GRUNTS) - (PEOPLE SCREAMING)  (GUNFIRE)  (PEOPLE YELLING AND SCREAMING)  Get them kids out of there! (GRUNTS)  (GUNFIRE)  - (GUNSHOT) - (GRUNTS)  (GUNFIRE)  (SIRENS WAILING FAINTLY)  (GUNSHOT)  (PANTING)  (GUNFIRE)  (HIGH-PITCHED RINGING)  (GUNFIRE)  (DRAMATIC MUSIC)    Hey! Hey!  Hey! Help!  (THUMPING) Ah!  Stop! Help!  Help!  (GRUNTS)  (DOOR SLAMS)  Fuck.  (STRAINING)    You are one stupid fucker.  Never trust a guy with a rattail.  Too easy to carve secrets out of.  (CAR DOOR CLICKS OPEN)  (PANTING)    Ray  what are you doing?  I told you not to look.    (GRUNTS)  (ALL GRUNTING)  (THUDDING AND GRUNTING)    (ECHOING THUDDING)
1 I don't have many options. Someone's closing in on us.  I have to find out what they know.  - What exactly are you doing? - I'm hacking the FBI.  With the FBI at Evil Corp, physical security is madness.  It's Angela. She's our only option.  - Did you talk to the FBI? - This is simple.  I'll give you a small device which you'll take to work.  Drop at the Fed's office on the 23rd floor, and walk away.  We have no other options; the president can't  go to Congress with a bailout right now.  Let me know when you've locked up the votes.  What are you up to?  You're not doing anything  on your end to help.  Yo, yo, yo, yo, please buy my CD.  He got into my system  and he wants me to put the CD  on one of the computers at work.  Well, I guess I should pay up, Ahmed,  before I get lynched over here.  Let me guess. You're excited.  Yeah, I'm excited.  We get to go to China.  (RAPID GUNFIRE, SCREAMING)  Elliot, before you get started,  I'm asking you to help me  and not look where you don't need to.  Are we really back to this again?  Ray is not some coffee shop owner.  Forget what you saw and move on.  Hey! Hey!  We're deep down inside you, Elliot.  You can't leave us,  and we can't leave you.  (TRIUMPHANT MUSIC)  # #  You're watching USA,  America's favorite cable network.  # #  (UPBEAT MUSIC)  Everybody knows   when the feeling's right   gonna rock the house, it's TV night   get ready   for Word Up Wednesday   (LIGHT FLUTE MUSIC)  # #  What's happening?  Where are we going?  God, Elliot, what's your damage?  Cool it, Darlene.  You know your brother needs our help sometimes.  That boy of ours.  You sure we're not first cousins?  (AUDIENCE LAUGHS)  Where we're going, Elliot, is a surprise.  Can't say much else.  What I can tell you is,  it's a place that makes everything better,  a place that changes you.  I should be so lucky.  (AUDIENCE LAUGHS)  I have a hunch that you just might thank me  once we get there.  Why?  What do you mean, why?  This is the annual Alderson family road trip, that's why.  With all of us together, taking on the world,  what could possibly go wrong?  (AUDIENCE LAUGHS)  (THUMPING AND MUFFLED SCREAMING)  What's that sound?  (CLEARS THROAT)  Say, Elliot, what's going on with you and that girl?  I always liked her. Angela Moss.  Oh, brother, kill me now.  (AUDIENCE LAUGHS)  Me and Angela, we're friends.  Ah, I see how it is.  You two are just gonna keep stringing us along.  Elliot and Angela, a regular will-they-won't-they couple.  (COUGHS)  Uh-oh, sounds like that cancer's acting up again.  Looks like it too.  (AUDIENCE LAUGHS)  What is that?  That laughing?  Mom, Elliot's hearing voices.  What else is new?  (AUDIENCE LAUGHS)  If you're not careful, Dad's gonna push you  out a window again.  Pipe down, Darlene.  While I'm alive, you need to treat me with respect.  I'm your father.  Not for long.  (AUDIENCE "OOHS")  (AUDIENCE LAUGHS)  (PUNCHES LANDING, ELECTRONIC MUSIC PLAYING)  # #  Eyes up, son.  See, on this journey of life,  it's best to stay focused on the road ahead,  'cause if you spend too much time looking down,  you might just end up with a crick in your neck.  (APPLAUSE)  (LIGHT MUSIC)  # #   Used to be you could trust in the story   Vilify the villains and celebrate the heroes   You could believe in the guts and the glory ways   # #  # #  # #  # #  # #  # #  # #  # #  # #  # #  # #  (THUMPING)  # #  # #  # #  # #  # #  (UPBEAT MUSIC)  # #  (GRUNTS)  Nick of time, huh?  (ELECTRONIC VIDEO GAME MUSIC PLAYING)  What?  I can feel your bug eyes on me.  (AUDIENCE LAUGHS)  Can I see your Game Boy?  No way, you're not allowed.  Your father told you to look ahead.  And you, turn that game down.  Are your fingers broken, young lady?  Not yet, but in this family, it's only a matter of time.  (AUDIENCE LAUGHS)  - (SIZZLING) - Ow!  You're burning me.  So what if he hears?  (AUDIENCE LAUGHS)  How about being more useful  than your sack-of-potatoes sister?  Mama needs a new pack of Slims.  Lights, remember? I'm watching my figure.  (AUDIENCE LAUGHS)  (SIGHS)  (THUMPING, MUFFLED SCREAMING)  (MUFFLED) Somebody help me!  Help!  Somebody!  I'm trapped in here!  I'm here!  (MUFFLED YELLING)  - No so fast, kiddo. - Isn't that  Nothing but baggage, sorry to say.  No, no, that was Ty  We're gonna have to get your peepers checked  as soon as we get home.  In the meantime, go do what you got to do.  We shove off in five.  (UPBEAT MUSIC)  # #  (BELLS JINGLE)  (CHEERS AND APPLAUSE)  I'm sorry.  Hey, no problem, E-meister.  Give me four!  (AUDIENCE LAUGHS)  Or not.  (LAUGHTER AND APPLAUSE)  Can I help you?  I didn't know you worked here.  Well, I started as a part-time sales associate.  Then they promoted me to assistant manager.  Now I'm on pace to be full manager.  It almost makes up for them killing my mom.  (AUDIENCE LAUGHS)  Come on, son. Grab what you can.  Cheez-Its, Pringles, Jolt!  What are you doing?  Elliot, stop him, or I'm gonna call the police.  (MACE HISSES)  (SCREAMING)  (AUDIENCE LAUGHS)  Can't worry about her anymore, son.  She's one of them.  No, she's not. She's my friend.  I promise, there are other fish in the sea.  And if you're anything like your old man  On second thought, don't be anything like your old man.  (AUDIENCE LAUGHS)  All right, gang, let's pack it up and hit the trail.  Together!  Because it's one for Alderson and  Alderson for one?  (AUDIENCE LAUGHS)  (LIGHT MUSIC)  # #  You guys'll never believe this.  I just had the most messed-up dream  that Mom slugged me in the face.  (AUDIENCE LAUGHS)  I got to get out of here.  (PUNCHES LANDING)  Uh-huh, Buster.  Eyes on the road in front of you.  (LOUD POP)  (TIRES SQUEALING)  (DRAMATIC MUSIC)  Ouch.  # #  Well, things suddenly aren't looking so hot  for the Alderson clan.  You screwed up another vacation.  All it not yet lost, gang. I have a donut.  (SIGHS)  Just have to get it from underneath my, uh  (MUFFLED YELLING)  (AUDIENCE LAUGHS)  Baggage.  (GRUNTS)  Do you really expect me to believe  there's no one in there?  Elliot, come on. Not this business again.  You're really starting to worry me, kiddo.  Did you hit your head during our little blowout?  Enough of this (BLEEP)!  (AUDIENCE "OOHS")  Tell me what's happening.  What is this?  (POLICE SIREN WHOOPS)  Whoa, that doesn't sound good.  On the plus side, I hear jumpsuits are in these days.  (AUDIENCE LAUGHS)  (UPBEAT ROCK MUSIC)  In times of chaos and uncertainty,  when the world feels off balance,  we look to those who've stood with us  from the beginning.  Since 1884, we've had America's back.  We may get knocked down,  but we'll never get knocked out.  We still have your back.  (UPBEAT MUSIC)  Stay calm, collected.  Follow my lead. It'll always work out.  (APPLAUSE)  Car trouble, huh?  He's onto us. Run for it!  (AUDIENCE LAUGHS)  Gideon, you're alive.  You folks haven't seen a clan of outlaws  with a kidnapped corporate exec, have you?  (HORN HONKS)  Yikes!  (TIRES SCREECHING)  (CRASH)  (HUBCAP CLATTERING)  (LAUGHS) I kill me!  (AUDIENCE LAUGHS)  (THUMP)  (CHEERS AND APPLAUSE)  (UPBEAT MUSIC)  # #  Seem upset, son.  Seriously, Elliot, it's been forever  since that poor cop passed.  It's been 12 seconds.  (AUDIENCE LAUGHS)  It's time to move past it.  Future is bright,  endless like that horizon out there.  (AUDIENCE LAUGHS)  Whatever you're doing with me, I don't care.  Just take me back.  It's not that simple, kiddo.  (TIRES SQUEALING)  Someone help me!  I'm a businessman!  A very important businessman.  (THUD)  (AUDIENCE LAUGHS)  You gonna tell me why you took him?  First you're hearing voices.  Now you're seeing things.  He's right in front of us!  We're staring at him!  Am I the only one here who isn't bat (BLEEP)?  (AUDIENCE LAUGHS)  (BLEEP)!  (AUDIENCE LAUGHS)  It'll feel good if you let it.  Believing it's real makes it so.  Come on, grab him by the loafers.  Oh, please, gentlemen.  Ankles instead?  The shoes, they're Ferragamo.  (AUDIENCE LAUGHS)  both: Hyah!  (AUDIENCE LAUGHS)  The laughing.  It's a lie.  (SIGHS)  Sometimes lies can be useful, Elliot.  Sometimes they protect you.  And sometimes they help you get away with murder.  (AUDIENCE LAUGHS)  (SOFT MUSIC)  (SIGHS)  When the truth is painful, son  and it often is  a lie is the only remedy.  'Cause too much truth, too much honesty,  that'll kill ya.  # #  This whole place is a lie.  # #  Nothing here is true.  # #  Listen,  I know your gut's saying not to trust me.  But look around.  Everything you see,  it's all here for you.  # #  To help you.  You should try just going along with it.  # #  This is it,  isn't it?  You've won.  You've taken over.  What's that, kiddo?  # #  That's what this is.  This road trip.  This family vacation.  I'm buried here.  # #  Well, I'll let you in on a little secret.  This was never gonna be permanent.  We did always have a destination.  # #  After the beating you took,  at least they got you to a doctor.  # #  You got yourself pretty messed up.  If I were alive, I'd want no part of that agony.  Nobody's won anything, Elliot,  especially not me.  I'm just trying to help you put it all in the rearview  as painlessly as possible.  # #  Bring 'er in, kiddo.  # #  Now that the worst is behind you,  it's time we get you back.  (GASPS)  (MONITOR BEEPING)  (SOMBER MUSIC)  # #  (GASPING BREATH)  Maxine, my dog.  Started to develop a cough two weeks ago.  She got pretty frail pretty quick.  Fell over a few times.  According to the vet,  she danced with the wrong mosquito,  got herself a  nasty case of heartworm.  She was moved to a little room off the basement,  had a water heater for a roommate.  Before she got sick,  Maxine lived like her own operator.  Didn't seem to cross her mind that she belonged to someone.  But in that basement, she needed human hands  to give her every scrap of food,  every pill  Occasional light.  # #  (WHIMPERING)  For the first time, she realized  that she continues to breathe  because someone else allowed it,  that she had a master.  (RASPING)  Now, I'm no vet,  but I think that realization might have killed her  before the parasites had a chance.  (SIGHS)  Anyway, I'ma quit yapping,  let you rest.  Big days ahead.  Work to do.  # #  We can sit here and complain,  or we can go out there and enjoy ourselves.  I'm gonna sit here and complain.  (AUDIENCE LAUGHS)  Well, not everyone enjoys spending their vacation  in a rain forest.  We're in this rain forest because of you!  I vote we go home.  You're not voting on this.  Call the newspapers.  Democracy is dead.  (AUDIENCE LAUGHS)  (APPLAUSE)  It's been two days since the shocking terror attack  at Beijing's Bayi Lake Hotel,  and while the exact death toll has yet to be released,  an anonymous source  Owning the FBI was never gonna be easy.  But now everyone's on high alert.  We'll be fine.  We only have one day.  You heard what Angela said.  An inter-office email stating that the FBI's CART team  is vacating E Corp tomorrow.  We don't have a shot  once they're back at the field office.  She'll be ready.  Darlene.  We just started teaching her.  For someone like Angela, learning all of this in 24 hours  is next to impossible.  Uh that?  Okay, uh, you know what?  It's pause.  Maybe you need to sometimes it helps to visualize it, okay?  So here.  Your network cable is gonna be plugged  into one of these suckers.  That's a battery-powered home-brewed mobile tower  called a femtocell.  Now, this guy won't help us get on the FBI network.  That won't be accessible at E Corp.  What this guy will do is force  every FBI cell phone to connect to it  so it can get every email, text message, and document.  Now, you SSH in, run the first script.  Period, forward slash,  EnableAttack, space,  femtopwn, space,  WLAN0, comma,  WLAN1, space, two.  No Uh, that's  Yeah.  I will get this.  Let's just try it again.  Mm-hmm.  Um  okay.  This is a Rubber Ducky.  All else fails, you find an FBI laptop anywhere on the floor.  They're usually Panasonic Toughbooks.  Plug this guy in,  wait 15 seconds, then yank it, okay?  Thanks to a tool called mimikatz,  it'll pull all cached passwords and domain info in  and save them on this.  Won't give us everything  but might help lead us somewhere.  Just a backup plan.  Okay. Let's try again. (CLAPS)  You can't teach someone to hack in one day, okay?  I don't know how we'll be ready by tomorrow.  - We need more time. - Well, we don't have it.  And once they leave E Corp, we're done.  Okay, just keep working on the scripts with Angela.  Rise and repeat, again and again.  Wax on, wax off.  Do whatever you got to do, but this is happening.  Okay, the holdup on the femtocell  isn't helping either, okay?  I still need to load the exploit, need to test it  It'll be here.  Cisco's still modding and swapping antennas.  (DRAMATIC MUSIC)  # #                            Really, man?  I thought we were on the same team.  Wait, wait, wait, wait. No, no, no, no.  What the fuck, Xun?  What the fuck is going on?  Get off me, man! Xun, what the hell's going on?  Xun, Xun, just wait. The fuck's going on, man?  What the fuck is going on, man?  Get off me. Get off me.  Fuck, dude.  Get off me, man.      No, no, stop, stop, stop. No, no, no.  No, no, no, no, no.  Stop, stop, stop, stop, stop!    (SCREAMING)      (SCREAMS)  (WHIMPERING)    (GROANING)  Agent Ramos recommends four weeks' psych leave.  And you know I don't take his evaluations lightly.  You were also there.  I was in my room.  I got lucky.  You were smack in the middle.  You owe yourself some time.  I can't go away for a month.  I won't.  We disrupt the investigation, the Dark Army wins.  Chinese are pointing to a group of Uighur separatists.  I told you what I saw at the airport.  What you saw doesn't mean anything.  Excuse me, but I disagree.  We were there to investigate the hack,  and then we were under fire.  That is not a coincidence.  By all reports, the Dark Army are just hackers.  It's not their MO to shoot up a hotel  teeming with FBI.  Violent separatists would have taken more victims.  I clipped one of the shooters in the leg.  He went down, hit the floor.  He could have kept firing.  I read the reports, DiPierro.  He turned the gun on himself.  He erased his history.  And the other shooter actually had me cornered.  I was done.  Swear to God.  But instead, for some reason,  he also put his weapon to his head  and pulled the trigger.  Their mission wasn't to slaughter us.  If it was, I wouldn't be here arguing with you right now.  They were there to disrupt our investigation,  to send us home,  and to leave nothing behind.  I don't know what to say.  Everyone's emotional because of this Beijing thing.  Revenge is on everyone's minds.  The drums of war. I know you hear them.  Be that as it may, Mr. Speaker,  there are ways to drown them out.  With enough passion, people will buy into anything,  especially at times like these.  The Chinese tied our hands on this one.  If I try to advocate borrowing from them now,  the American public will call me a traitor.  And, Phillip, frankly,  I don't even know if I disagree with them.  Don't shit a shitter, John.  You enter this pissing contest with China  instead of passing this bailout, the country goes bankrupt.  Believe me, I would if I could.  A bailout.  No one can make that happen, not in this climate.  I'm sorry, Phillip.  Minister Zhang's office has been unreachable.  (CHUCKLES)  That cocksucker.  Well, call him again  and again and again and again.  Don't fucking leave until you get him.  Where's my car?  I'm late for my next appointment.  Sorry, sir.  The driver's having trouble  getting into the parking structure.  Protesters have surrounded the building.  Tell Bratton to summon as much NYPD as is necessary.  (CROWD YELLING ANGRILY)  (DARK MUSIC)  My success is assured.  My success is assured.  My success is assured.  My success is assured.  My success is assured.  My success is assured.  Um, you know you can't talk to yourself  during the actual operation?  Whatever it takes,  as long as you're almost ready for liftoff.  We settled on midtown JW?  23rd floor, Eastside View.  This'll be during their lunch hour,  so the floor should be pretty empty.  Okay,  we're officially good to go.  (WINCES)  # #  The hell is this?  # #  Nothing.  I thought I recognized your friend,  but I don't.  I'll wait for your call when I get there.  Jesus.  At least you still got a few of these left.  I cannot get through a day in that E Corp building  without juicing, you know what I mean?  - (CHUCKLES) - (CHUCKLES SOFTLY)  Hey, how soon till you re-up on, um  Everything?  Oh, well, that's it for this place.  I thought I could weather the storm, but that's  I can't.  I know it's rough out there, but you're a survivor, Ahmed.  (CHUCKLES)  Yeah, well, not when I can't pay the rent.  With this cash allowance, no one's coming in.  No customers, no inventory.  No more of the best damn turkey sandwich  in the tri-state.  Heh.  Man, I'm real sorry.  Yeah. Thanks.  Well, I guess I got to take advantage  while I still can, right?  How about it?  Turkey sandwich on whole wheat.  Oh, yeah, okay.  Lettuce, mayo, Muenster.  ("GWAN" BY THE SUFFERS)  # #  (ELEVATOR DINGS)  Ooh, let me fit ya   Let me fit ya with a new glove   Yeah, hi, I'm in room 2301.  I just used my last towel.  I'm running out for a sec but was wondering if someone  could leave a few extras by my door?  Thank you.  G'wan, oh   Yeah   Oh, hi.  Oh, there's no conditioner in my room,  and I'm sure gonna need it with this humidity.  You know how it is.  Let me fix you   Thanks, doll.  Let me fix you up just the way I like   There'll be no breaks, love   And once we get it we'll be going at it all night   Once we get g'wan, g'wan, g'wan, ooh   Yeah, yeah   Once I get ya g'wan, g'wan, g'wan, ooh   Yeah, yeah   Going   I said going, yeah, yeah   (KEYBOARD KEYS CLACKING)  (PHONE BUZZES)  Are we still on for lunch?  Yeah, I'll be there.  (EXHALES DEEPLY)  (ELEVATOR DINGS)  (ELEVATOR DINGS)  Let me hit ya   Let me hit you up into a new way   And once it hits, love   Boy, you can bet that you'll be begging me to stay   Once we get g'wan, g'wan, g'wan, ooh   Yeah, yeah   Once I get ya g'wan, g'wan, g'wan, ooh   How's it going?  Yeah, yeah   Going   I said going   Yeah, yeah, yeah   Going   I said going   Yeah, yeah, yeah   Going   I said going   Yeah, yeah, yeah, hey   Yeah, hey, yeah, hey, yeah, hey   Yeah, hey, yeah, hey, yeah, yeah   Hey, hey   # #  Shit.  # #  (LINE TRILLS)  Shit.  What's up?  The script, it isn't working.  Mobley, are you on?  Yeah, what's on your terminal?  "EnableAttack not found."  (DOOR OPENS)  # #  Everything okay?  Angela, what's happening?  # #  Angela?  # #  I'm good.  Okay, you have to change your path.  CD, bin, hit Enter.  - Done. - Now run the script.  (KEYBOARD KEYS CLACKING)  And we are live.  Wi-Fi interface is up.  Communicating with femtocell.  Good work.  We're almost there. Do your thing.  # #  Is everything okay?  Who the hell is that?  Yeah.  Fine.  You were in there awhile.  I didn't mean for that to sound weird.  I just noticed because I've never seen you  on this floor before.  I wanted to make sure you're all right is all.  We don't have time for this. Get rid of him.  Anyway, I'm Agent Ross Thomas, CY-5.  Mobley, you're getting the transfers.  Anything?  Angela.  He hails from San Diego,  relationship is complicated.  So what's it like?  Knowing that every room you walk into,  at least one person is quietly trying to muster the courage  to ask you out.  Jesus, end this before I hurl.  Mobley.  He's been in the bureau for under a year.  Was infosec before then.  I don't really think about that.  Don't have much yet.  Well, would you think about drinks with me?  Say, tomorrow night?  I'm actually seeing someone.  Oh, come on. I'm not proposing.  It's one drink.  I won't take no for an answer.  I'm flattered, but I really have to get back to work.  I've got something.  He calls his mom a weird amount,  and I will exploit that weirdness.  This floor, it's off-limits to non-bureau.  Did you know that?  I thought you all were moving.  ("DEAR MAMA" BY 2PAC PLAYS ON CELL PHONE)  Don't you know we love you sweet   Dear Mama   Well? You want to tell me why you're here?  Shit, Mobley, I'm looking too.  Angela, hold on a sec.  I'm waiting.  So that's all you got?  A little brush-off and you give up?  (LAUGHS SOFTLY)  I just wanted a little flight.  No one's ever handed a win.  What are you doing for lunch?  Busy tomorrow, but  I can meet you downstairs.  Like, 30?  (CHUCKLES)  I know a great Greek place around the corner.  I'll see you in a half.  All right, you need to find a cubicle  with a network switch under it.  Should be on the ground.  Lots of Ethernet cables and flashing LEDs.  (SUSPENSEFUL MUSIC)  # #  Found one.  All right, put the battery backup down  and the femtocell next to it.  Plug the battery backup into a power strip.  Do not unplug the femtocell from the battery backup.  After that, plug the other end  of the yellow network cable into the switch.  # #  Don't forget to wipe your prints from everything.  # #  Okay, the femtocell's plugged in.  # #  You killed it.  Go celebrate.  # #  Shit.  We lost Wi-Fi.  You need to get to a terminal and bring it back up.  Screw you. I did what you asked.  If we can't get the interface to load,  then we can't use the Juniper ScreenOS backdoor  to own the network,  which means I can't wipe the security footage  of you planting the femtocell.  You're fucking kidding me.  Just get to your cubicle.  I'll walk you through it.  Masters. We all have them.  Every relationship's a power struggle.  Some of us need to be controlled.  Once in a while, the best course of action  is to just ride shotgun.  Stare at the road ahead,  and hope it leads somewhere you want to go.  (OMINOUS MUSIC)  # #  There's a USB flash drive in that bag.  When you get to your cubicle, power off your machine,  plug the flash drive in, and power it back on.  Hold F12 to bring up your boot options.  Make sure you boot from USB.  Make sure live AMD64 is highlighted,  then hit Enter.  When the desktop comes up, open a terminal.  Click on the icon of the black screen,  just like you practiced.  Okay, now I need you to type the following:  SSH, space,  dash L, space,  root, space,  L4713116.e-corp-usa.com.  # #  I lost my place.  The last thing that I entered was three.  116.e-corp-usa.com.  # #  Okay.  Okay, password: joshua.  Homestretch you're gonna have to bring up  both Wi-Fi interfaces.  Ifconfig, space,  WLAN0, space, up.  Done.  Last one.  Ifconfig, space,  WLAN1, space, up.  Angela Moss, is that right?  Oh, you in the middle of a call?  I'm sorry.  I hate when people do that to me.  Go ahead. I can wait for you to finish.  # #  (GRUNTS)  (GROANING)  (DOOR SLAMS)  (WHEEZING, WHIMPERING)  Before you get all bent out of shape,  all I was trying to do was take those punches for you.  That's it.  Thank you.  (SOFT MUSIC PLAYING ON RADIO)  # #  So if I had to guess,  I'd say you didn't tell Principal Howard your side?  You know, it's okay to talk about stuff,  to share your side of things.  # #  I'm here to listen.  Always will be.  You don't feel like talking right now,  nobody's gonna force you.  # #  Hopefully you're okay with listening, though,  'cause  I actually have something to share,  something I'm pretty embarrassed about.  # #  Mr. Fitch, my supervisor  you met him, big bald guy,  looks like that guy from "The Simpsons"  that you don't like very much.  A few Fridays ago, he calls me into his office,  sits me down,  and immediately starts reading off a list of dates.  September 8th, August 29th, August 2nd.  Few more.  He goes on to tell me that because of these dates,  my contract is being terminated.  I was being let go.  I asked him why.  He didn't answer.  He just thanked me for my time, wished me luck,  excused himself, no further explanation.  What were the dates?  They were all appointments with a doctor.  I had to leave early for some blood work.  What? What do you mean?  I'm sick, Elliot.  That's what they're telling me.  For a while now.  I've been trying to keep it from everybody.  Your mom, Darlene,  work, you.  # #  Come on, kiddo.  World isn't gonna get rid of me that easily.  I'm gonna be okay.  I'm never gonna leave you.  Promise.  # #  Oh, come on.  Enough of this gloom and doom.  Why dwell on the past when we can take a peek into the future?  The site of my new gig.  That's where I'm taking you.  I'm opening a store  computers.  Everybody wants to have one.  We love 'em.  Figured it made sense.  You're gonna have a computer store?  Mm-hmm.  Can I work there?  Yeah, don't see why not.  In fact, I will give you your first assignment right now.  I want you to come up with a name.  # #  What? Stores need a name, right?  I can name it whatever I want?  All right, tell you what.  When we pull up,  the first thing that comes into your mind,  that'll be the name.  Really?  # #  Now, it's coming up here on the right.  Just keep those eyes on the road.  # #  Now, I don't have the keys yet,  so we can't go in.  I just closed on the place.  It's a bit of a fixer-upper, but it'll get there.  It's awesome.  Thought you'd like it.  Hey, uh, back there,  what we talked about,  let's just keep that between us, okay?  Don't even tell your mom.  Just our little secret.  # #  Good.  Now, you have work to do.  This place needs a name.  Now, remember,  the first thing that pops into your mind.  # #  (GASPS)
1 It's almost as if something's come alive.  My perfectly constructed loop.  At 8:00 a.m. breakfast with my friend Leon.  At 2:00 p.m. we'll check out a basketball game.  Two days a week I go to a church group.  You could use some practice.  If he's guilty,  I could destroy him at a terminal.  I told you not to look.  - Hi, Daddy. - Hi, pumpkin.  You were drunk, eating shrimp cocktail,  and it was raining  when you decided my mother would die?  If you want to change things,  perhaps you should try from within.  You want me to convince the class  to remove the contingency.  You're gonna give me exactly what I want in return.  I can't wipe the security footage  of you planting the femtocell.  Angela Moss.  You won't be able to give me  anything I want out of life.  (CLASSICAL MUSIC)    (CHUCKLING)  Oh, I think so.  Oh, oh, Tyrell, Joanna,  meet my silent partner in crime,  Sharon Knowles.  I've heard many good things.  - And her husband, Scott. - How are things?  Tyrell here is our new rising young star  with an eye on the CTO position.  But he's gonna have to wait  for Terry Colby's golf career to take off  or for an early stroke.  (LAUGHTER)  Those earrings are stunning.  Thank you.  Tyrell's always surprising me with little gifts.    (BABY BABBLING)    (SIRENS WAILING DISTANTLY)  (GENTLE ORCHESTRAL MUSIC)    Capitalistic pig!  - synca and correctins by Caio -  (BROODING ORCHESTRAL FLOURISH)    Hello.  I see you.  I recognize you.  I acknowledge your existence.  Let's talk.  Get to know who each other really are.  (PAINED BREATH)  All of this is said with  a simple act of a handshake  between two people.  It's not any different than a client  connecting with a server.  It all relies on that first handshake  and naturally grows from there  for most people.  For me,  I can't seem to learn the rules.  What happened back there?  When you protected me.  What was that? I've never seen that before.  That was what you needed.  Why were you trying to hide him?  - What are you talking about? - Tyrell.  (SCOFFS)  You were acting like he wasn't in the trunk.  But Tyrell was there.  I saw him.  I thought we moved past this.  Let's not go backwards.  (SIGHS)  What are you so afraid will happen  if you tell me the truth?  (SLAMS CONCRETE)  Why do you want to know so bad?  Why do you even fucking care?  I don't want to be in denial anymore.  I just want to accept what I did and move on.  Fine.  (SCOFFS)  I'll tell you.  (SIGHS)  What's the last thing that you remember?  Pop popcorn.  I-I remember the popcorn.  (DARK MUSIC)  Who the fuck?    I'm sorry, would you mind holding for a moment?  Thanks.  I'll make this quick.  I'm Agent DiPierro, FBI Cybercrime Division.  We co-opted one of your floors.  I was heading to my station when  I see you.  And it wasn't an "oops, wrong floor" kind of drop-in.  From where I was, it looked like you were coming from somewhere.  Now, this is nothing official so don't worry, but  I just had to ask,  what were you doing on a restricted floor?    Making plans  with Agent Thomas.  We were trying to decide drinks tomorrow or  lunch today.  Where'd you land?  Lunch.  A Greek place nearby.    How do you know each other?  I'm sorry, is there something else  I can help you with?  I just  really have to get back to this call before lunch.    You know, this is the honest,  "cards on the table" truth,  your story fascinates me.  The luck  (SCOFFS)  To leave Allsafe a week before the company gets hacked  and then to end up here at E Corp.  It's ironic given your history.  Okay, don't freak. She's got nothing.  If she did, you'd already be busted.  Well, I should quit babbling.  I was gonna have you drop by soon anyway.    Drop by?  For what?  Just to get a statement, answer a few questions, no big.  I'd be happy to.  I'm just really busy right now.    Whatever this is    It's not you.    Okay, final command,  ifconfig,  space,  wlan1, space, up.  (KEYS CLACK)    And there it is.  What?  We just owned the FBI.    I did it, didn't I?  It was either us  or him.  How did I do it?  Well, you  the guy was fucking batshit.  He was raving about  killing some woman and  the wonder of it all.  I mean, we were gonna be next.  How did I do it?  After I ran the scripts,  he went off on us being gods.    The popcorn,  that's where Darlene said she hid that gun.  And I didn't want to, but  I shot him.  (GENTLE AMBIENT MUSIC)  No.    I shot him.    Harder.  Harder.  (BED SPRINGS GIVE)    (BARELY AUDIBLE) Harder.  I told my friends you're coming.  You know that can't happen.  I thought this was our celebration.  We love each other. What's to hide?  (SCOFFS) Derek.  I mean, how many times do you get to turn 30?  Either come to my party tonight as my girlfriend  or we're done.    Pull up two hours ago.  (MOUSE CLICKING)  (INDISTINCT CHATTER)  (MOUSE CLICKING)  (SIGHS) Last week, any day.  (MOUSE CLICKING)  The entire archive's corrupt.  Call the network team.  You guys just got hacked.  I'd sweep the 23rd floor and check Angela Moss's computer.  You won't find anything I'm sure she erased all traces  but check anyway.  Where you going?  It's Fourth of July tomorrow.  I'm gonna find a barbeque to be miserable at.  (THE CRAMPS' "GARBAGEMAN" PLAYS)    You ain't no punk, you punk   (OVER TV) Trash pile-ups have now become  a real epidemic in the city.  Due to the credit crisis brought on by Five/Nine,  many private businesses cannot afford  waste management services,  which has sparked a cottage industry of  roadside garbage burning at discounted rates.  The Taxi and Limousine Commission asks that  drivers now accept Ecoin.  Per the Taxi and Limousine Commission,  payment can be made via mobile phone.  Just download the Ecoin app from the Play Store  or App Store, scan the QR code  once you reach your destination,  and the payment will be withdrawn  from your Ecoin Wallet.  (SONG CONTINUES OVER TAXI RADIO)  You had me worried, not answering my calls  after all that went down.  I'm gonna go.  You weren't the target.  Cisco was just trying  Stop.  I know you already put the rest together, so  no more smokescreens.  Okay, ask me anything, I'm an open book.  I owe you that.  You guys always thought that you were smarter than me.  But come on.  You never actually hid it that well.  Every Halloween,  when we were kids,  you and Elliot always made me watch that shitty scary movie.  It was so bad.  And all these years later,  I'd kind of forgotten about it.  Even when the masks started popping up in those videos.  I didn't place it at first.  (SIRENS WAILING)  Maybe I did.  Maybe I didn't want to.  I mean, come on,  that's crazy, right?  That you guys would  (SIRENS WAILING)  Had enough alone time down there  to get your head right and do what needs to be done?  Speak up.  Yeah.  You believe him?  Yeah.  Okay.  This is how it's gonna go.  (OMINOUS MUSIC)  You gonna sit your ass right here  until you do what you got to do.  Once the site's up,  you gonna crawl back into your hole  until we're sure this baby's purring like a kitten.      (MOUSE CLICKING, KEYS CLACKING)  How long is this gonna take?  A few hours.  Once he gets what he wants  Right now he needs me.  So that makes us safe.    (KEYS CLACKING)  (DOOR OPENS)  (DOOR CLOSES)    What's with the looks?  Mm.    And this is happening tomorrow?  Mm-hmm.  (DOOR UNLOCKS, OPENS)  (FOOTFALL)  Hello, Derek.  You never showed up.  Told you what would happen if you didn't show up.  No-no-no-no-no, that's not gonna work anymore.  You've been messing with me for way too long.  I should've known  somebody that I met working at a stuck-up E Corp party  would be bad news.  Meeting you at that party changed something for me.  I'd be lost right now without you.  What you want,  I want it too.  I was busy tonight because I was hassling my lawyer on holiday  to do this.  It's my birthday gift to you.  Holy shit.  We're getting more traffic than ever.  Says our Bitcoin intake doubled since we've been up.  200,000 we could have made while we were down,  that's on you, boy.  It's time to go back to your cage, shitbrick.  What about a game?  Old time's sake.  Give me and Elliot a minute.  Wait outside.  All right, set it up.  Thank you.  For what?  When we first met, I thought I was helping you.  I thought I was gonna be your savior.  I didn't tell you about my wife.  She was so smart.  Way smarter than me.  She was like you,  real good with computers.  That's what she did for a living.  So when she had this idea to do a site,  it sounded good to me.  I don't think she ever meant it to go where it went.  She was wanting to make some extra scratch.  But the thing grew so fast,  it took on a life of its own.  And the money,  well  We're talking about the type of money that  makes you question right and wrong.  So, you know,  we made a deal.  Decided we'd let the market dictate  what was sold on the site.  And we wouldn't look.  She was better at the denial than me.  It ate at me,  all the things I imagined were going on.  I feared the worst.  But I still didn't look.  (OMINOUS MUSIC)  Not until you came along.    After I found out what was on there,  what we did to you,  what we did to RT,  it was weak.  Way back when,  when I said it was about stumbling,  I was wrong.    I should've taken a fucking stand.    You are my answer.  (LAUGHS SOFTLY)  It's not the other way around.    So thank you.  (EXHALES)  (SNIFFS)    (SIGHS)    How much time do I have?    Come on, man.  We both knew exactly what you were gonna do  when I let you go back on that computer.    With their response time,  I would guess they have us surrounded by now.    You better get out before they get up here then.  World champion chess master Emanuel Lasker  once said,  "When you see a good move  look for a better one."    Elliot.    Be careful.  (SIGHS)    (DOOR OPENS)    I gave Ray the chance to make the right move.  And he left himself wide open to me.  (SIGHS)  (SIRENS WAILING DISTANTLY)  (BIRDS CHIRPING)  (AMBIENT INDUSTRIAL MUSIC)  When I completed the migration,  I also took it upon myself to open the site  to more than just TOR traffic.  Stay right here and don't move.  Just had to index it on a few search engines  and with the added touch of adverts  on the top advertising sites,  and now it's accessible to any average scumbag  that Googles "Thai girls for sale."  Didn't take long for the FBI to catch on  after I emailed them an anonymous tip.  Mr. Robot was a part of me that I created because of my pain.  So now we have a chance to start again.  Our handshake negotiated us as partners.  (POLICE RADIO CHATTER)  (INDISTINCT TALKING)  The House will come to order.  (GLASS SHATTERS) (THUD)  (CROWD COMMOTION)  (GENTLE PIANO MUSIC)    There has been much mystery  surrounding the vandalism and castration  of the Wall Street bull.  That mystery was solved when  the missing anatomy of the bull  crashed through a skylight of the House chamber.  Police, FBI, and the Department of Homeland Security  have begun a full-fledged manhunt  for those parties responsible.  You haven't answered my calls since the weekend.  As you can see, it's busy.  Ever since this bailout fiasco yesterday,  these kits are flying off the shelves.  The, uh, end of civilization is near,  so this is gonna have to wait.  I can settle the lawsuit.  Stay out of that.  The lawyers are handling it.  E Corp will settle.  But there's a contingency with the independent inspections.  If we drop it  I'm not discussing this with you.  If you drop the independent inspections,  they will settle.  Did did your boss put you up to this?  Look at what's happening.  Who knows if this company will be around long enough  to see this case through?  Drop the contingency. You'll get your money.  The inspections are there for a reason.  Do you want what happened to your mom  to happen again?  I'll make sure the inspections go forward internally.  (SCOFFS)  Is that how they're suckering you?  Trust me, they value me over there.  (LAUGHS)  You laugh,  but they respect me.  I don't know who this person is who's in front of me,  but I'm not agreeing to any of this.  I don't trust them.  And to be honest?  I don't trust you.  Besides, you think anyone else is gonna want to  sign on to whatever you're selling?  It's not just my vote,  it's the whole class.  You need 2/3.  I already got the signatures.  That's the trick about money.  Banks care more about it than anything else.  What exactly is in this for you?  You aren't getting the money. I am.  You know that, right?  So I'll ask you one more time.  Why did you come here?  Because you certainly didn't give a shit about my opinion.  This was just a courtesy.  Two weeks and it's done.  (INDISTINCT CHATTER)  Now this Ray thing got everyone talking.  I didn't have anything to do with that.  Lying ain't your friend right now, cuz.  Everyone got their eyes on you.  Half of them love you.  Half of them want to kill you.  Other half just want to twist your shit up.  But you know, it's that last half  I'm worried about for you, bro.  Hey.  Little man, book it real quick for me.  I'm good here.  What's that?  Didn't hear you.  You heard.  (SCOFFS)  Fucking  bravery  is contagious.  I suggest you talk to your boy.  He's fine where he is.  Ray's site.  I had 800 Bitcoins in my wallet.  Now, all of a sudden, I got no access.  Can't even make new sales 'cause the site's down.  All of this is on you.  So the way I see it,  you're paying me back.  We'll get some one-on-one  later on.  (PLAYERS CHATTERING)  Just remember, cuz,  sitting under the Sword of Damocles.  Out of the blue,  I received a call from my lawyer.  Seems the contingency on our biggest lawsuit  was miraculously dropped.  Care to explain?  It's what you wanted, isn't it?  I remember telling you  exactly the opposite.  You just didn't want to ask for it.  But it is what you wanted.  You gonna take the offer then?  Well, it's not for me to say,  officially, but  despite the fact that we're hemorrhaging money  at the moment,  settling this would be a lot cheaper than  dealing with the legal expense.  Can I ask why it was so important for you  to drop this contingency?  You protecting some  evil, secret agenda?  Aren't we all protecting our  evil, secret agendas?  In that case,  here's mine.  One of the things that Terry Colby  said to me when I took this job  was I could make changes from within.  I want my position moved  to the Risk Management Department.  There's a manager position available.  And even though I may lack the experience,  I think you know I can more than make up for it  with drive  and quick learning.  That's how you choose to squander the capital  you've just earned  You're aware that's a  lateral move?  It's what I want.  And I am asking.  It's my birthday today.  Did you know that?  No.  Hm.  - I thought - No, no  Don't believe what you read online.  Today  is my actual birthday.  I never share the real one with anyone.  Some things I like to keep to myself.  Happy birthday then.  (CHUCKLES)  Would you like to  celebrate  with me?  Tonight?  No.  Well, maybe next year.  Wither thou goest to possess them  and thou succeedest them,  and dwellest in their land.  Amen.  ALL: Amen.  I wanted to tell you I'm sorry.  For my outburst last month.  Can you let go of me, please?  I know you're afraid,  but the fear you have is a right one.  It means you'll be forever vigilant.  You want to know how I know?  I've seen you talking to Him.  Not out loud, but I could tell.  It's written all over your face.  It's not crazy, Elliot,  it's very normal.  You've seen me talking to him?  Yes.  But you don't have to keep it such a secret.  When you let Jesus into your heart,  He'll always listen.  Tell you what,  I'll give you some alone time.  (AMBIENT MUSIC)    I need your help.  I've been lost these past few weeks.  Since the whole Ray thing.  I need to finish what I started.  With Evil Corp.  But I don't know what to do.    Why did you first start listening to me?  When I sent you that note  on the server at Evil Corp,  something inside you told you to listen.  And you did.  Followed me off the subway,  came to fsociety,  and then you  not me  led us to hack Evil Corp.  I didn't force you to do any of it.  It was all you.  Your choice.  Truth is,  I just followed your lead.  People want to follow you, son.  Why?  Same reason why you led the entire world  into a revolution.  Because you are a leader.    I don't want to be a leader.  You asked me how to finish this.  That's what you need to do.  You need to lead.  (PHONE RINGING)  And not unlike your floor,  coffee machine, file room.  People in this bullpen, these are your  risk management coordinators,  you'll be working with this team.  Put out risk reports, analyses,  and you report everything out to me.  After Five/Nine, almost all of our time  is dedicated to helping the crisis response team.  That's what we do here.  Our internal investigation team  make recommendations to management  about ways to  address the crisis and course correct.  Need you to be smart.  Think outside the box and be discreet.  You get in; you get out;  assess the situation quickly;  find answers;  figure out ways to limit damage.  I'm giving you access  to the case we're working on now.  It's a class action lawsuit brewing in Flint  over water contamination.  Nothing public yet, but  could be big  first quarter, 2016.  Do I just go into the file server  to access that?  I'll have I  run you through everything.  Setup, Outlook, Calendar.  (DISTANT INDISTINCT CHANTING)  You knew Gideon Goddard?  We worked together on a couple projects  when he was a vendor.  It's terrible what happened to him.  Well, why don't you go ahead and get yourself up to speed?  I'll check in once a week.  Let me know if you need anything.  (OUTSIDE CHANTING CONTINUES)  Can I sit in on the daily debrief meeting?  (SIGHS) Look,  that's, uh,  that's a director-level meeting.  We don't really invite managers to that.  If I could just sit and listen  it might help me get up to speed faster.  I want to make sure I can add value  as soon as possible.  All right.  It's later this afternoon.  I'll send you an invite with the details.  Did you get in  okay this morning with these protestors out here?  (INDISTINCT CHANTING)  (CHUCKLES) It's crazy, right?  I was on a route to cure myself of Mr. Robot.  The regiment was supposed to be that path.  (TENSE MUSIC)  I never thought the regiment would be the thing  that would lead me right back where I started.  People always told me growing up that  it's never about the destination.  It's about the journey.  But what if the destination is you?  What if it's always you?    Hey!  (MUFFLED) Help!  (MUFFLED SCREAMING)  (GROANS)  I heard you got a problem.  You know what else your problem is?  Too much courage.  Just like your nigger friend.  He might tell you it's a good thing,  but it ain't always.  It makes you have errors in judgment.  (STRAINS)  But I'm gonna do you a solid.  I'm gonna fix that courage problem of yours.  (BLOWS LANDING)  (BOTH GRUNTING)  Okay.  We should break that brave, little soul of yours, homey.  (CHUCKLES)  You could've avoided this if you'd just given me my money.  Think about that.  Think about it.  - Think about it. - (GROANING)  No, no!  (PAINED GROANS)  Gonna get a letter on Tuesday.  Do what it says.  - (GRUNTS) - (SCREAMS)  Hey, yo, man,  when you see Whiterose,  make sure you say I did you good.  (GROANS)  I'll be rooting for you, cuz.  Always.  Usually, they feed us.  It's one of the only reasons  to come to these meetings.  Should we go ahead and start?  It doesn't look like Susan's gonna make it.  Is there any reason to have this meeting without her?  The economy must really be in the shitter  if Susan Jacobs finally decided to take her vacation days.  First order of business  is the small independent loan companies we're servicing.  I'm surprised they're not suing us  for breach of the uptime clauses.  I have three class actions on  that point alone in my region.  Contractual damage on uptime are minimal.  I'm not even worried about it.  We'll settle.  But we should discuss those when Susan comes back.  Maybe it would be helpful if I put together a summary  of how we've handled past cases.  To see if there are any patterns that might  help us figure out how to address this issue.  If we pull milestone cases  like Dakota Fracking and  Washington Township,  I could put together a summary briefing.  All I would need is access to the files  and then I could get working on that right away.  (SIGHS)  You know what?  There's not much we can do here today.  Food never came, Susan's out.  Let's adjourn.  Didn't I just say that two minutes ago?  We're really leaving before the food?  I said adjourned.  I know who you are.  You did what you did  to get a job here.  You sucked whoever's dick to get transferred here.  And, frankly, I don't really care.  This is a favor to Price.  You know what he told me,  when I asked him how I should deal with you?  He said, and I quote,  "However you want."  Enjoy the shrimp cocktail.  This is good news, don't you think?  But you're not happy about it.  I'm not sure.  When did you get it?  This morning.  How are your interactions with him?  For the first time,  we trust each other.  I help him, and he helps me.  Since I've been at my mom's,  I wanted to get rid of him.  But you were right.  You can't destroy a part of yourself.  Elliot, I need to ask you a question.  Where do you think you are right now?  What do you mean?  Elliot,  you know you haven't been staying with your mother, right?  (OMINOUS MUSIC)  I know.  (ALARM BUZZING)  (INDISTINCT CHATTER)  When you get released,  I hope you continue seeing me in my office.  I think it's important we maintain our regular schedule.  Don't you agree?  Yes.  (GENTLE POP MUSIC)  Mr. Robot was right.    Control can sometimes be an illusion.  But sometimes you need illusion to gain control.    Fantasy is an easy way to give meaning to the world,  to cloak our harsh reality with escapist comfort.    After all,  isn't that why we surround ourselves with so many screens?  (UNINTELLIGIBLE)  So we can avoid seeing?  So we can avoid each other?  I don't think I'm ready to  talk about it just yet.  So we can avoid truth?    I'm sorry for not telling you everything.  But I needed this in order to get better.    Please don't be mad too long.  This will be the last time I keep things from you.  I promise.    I know what you're thinking,  and no.  I didn't lie to you.  See you in the morning.  All of this really happened.  This was just my way of coping with it.  But now, I'd like it if  we could trust each other again.  Let's shake on it.  - synca and correctins by Caio -
1 What if this all went away?  The money, this city, all of it?  The world is filled with stupid people,  and I get paid a lot to be smart.  Susan Jacobs,  the general counsel at E Corp.  Madam executioner.  [screams]  The tracking on her phone is working.  How long you think she's gonna stay away for?  Long enough.  Have you ever considered which part of our scheme motivates you?  The FBI announced today Tyrell Wellick and fsociety  engaged in this attack.  Are you alone?  That's called a femtocell.  So we can get every FBI email,  text message, and document.  We just owned the FBI.  They have something called Operation Berenstain.  Possibly heavy surveillance.  [grunting] Ah!  They're trying to cover their tracks,  and right now, we're the tracks.  [jazz music]  [door opens, bell jingles]    [indistinct chatter]  Oh, uh, go ahead.  Oh, whole milk.  Must be some kind of revolutionary.  Uh, no I, um  Just 'cause everyone's into this almond coconut shit nowadays.  It's, um  not  [clears throat]    [sighs]  [indistinct chatter]  What kind of phone do you have?  Oh, uh, this?  Um yeah, it's it's a Nexus.  Yeah, I'm an Android guy.  Uh, hate Apple.  Think iPhones are for pussies. [chuckles]  What are you on?  iPhone.  [softly] Right.  You think they suck so much, but they're faster.  Uh  [coughing] Bullshit.  I mean, if you're talking boot times,  then it's Android all day,  and if you're talking net speed,  Chrome on Android has better HTML5 compliance  and runs JavaScript so much faster than Safari.  No competition.  Oh, yeah?  Prove it.  Go to this benchmarking website.  We'll compare speeds.  Okay.  Game on.  Ugh, are you on the Wi-Fi here?  Yes. [sighs]  It's slow as shit.  Agreed. It's hit or miss.  There's another Ron's Coffee Shop.  Oh, 14th Street. Yeah, I know.  Everyone always Reddits about that one.  Crazy fast.  You can practically stream 4K videos on your laptop.  Why aren't you there now, then?  You got me.  iPhones suck.  [clears throat] I'm, uh, meeting someone.  What about you?  - Same. - Cool, cool, cool.  Oh, the old malicious browser benchmark trick.  I see you already own this newb's whole system.  I like it.  Didn't your mom ever tell you not to surf websites  that have an embedded Stagefright exploit?  Can't drop the proverbial soap  around a black-hat bitch like this, Mobley.  Darlene, I  I thought I was meeting Elliot.  Me too.  Relax, kids, this isn't the stranger danger episode.  Elliot couldn't make it, but no need to connip.  I'll download you.  Well, I'm not gonna shout.  Get over here, tubs.  Don't  Before we start, he wanted me to read you guys something.  Now, keep in mind these are his words, not mine.  He's a touch melodramatic.  "What I'm about to tell you is top secret.  "A conspiracy bigger than all of us.  "There's a powerful group of people out there  "that are secretly running the world.  "I'm talking about the guys no one knows about,  "the guys that are invisible,  the top 1% of the top 1%"   What's with the looks?  Mm.    And this is happening tomorrow?  Mm-hmm.  [dramatic music]      Your passcode has been confirmed.  Please wait while you're joined to the conference.  -[line beeps] - Hello?  -[line beeps] - Hello.  Hey, Douglas Gitelman, WFO.  -[line beeps] - Lorin Connor, FBI New York.  Hi, guys, Michael Kirkpatrick, New York.  Anyone else on?  - Just waiting on you. - [line beeps]  Hello, all. Everyone on?  It's Kirby, Megan, and Zach from the seventh floor.  Yup, all here.  Great. Don't have a ton of time.  It is the nation's birthday, after all,  so let's get down to brass tacks.    E Corp, Google, AT&T, Uber,  Apple, Verizon, Facebook  all 23 of these listed companies have been complicit  in aiding the FBI in Operation Berenstain.  [tape crackling]  Jesus, what is that noise?  Okay, tape's busted.  Just grab another one and we'll do it again.  Yeah.  [soft dramatic music]  Okay. Fuck it.  I'll keep it simple.  [clears throat]  Happy Fourth of July, fellow Americans.  On this patriotic holiday, we wanted to remind you,  under the Universal Declaration of Human Rights,  privacy is a right.  Or at least it used to be.  Listen closely to a classified conference call  we recently intercepted  between the FBI agents  that so earnestly promise you  fidelity, bravery, and integrity.            Come on, Kirby, screw the 3 million.  They got us the 17 we're building our case around now.      Doesn't help that Comey hasn't signed off on it.  The fact that we're keeping it from him  does not bode well for your case.  He's an uptight choirboy.  No one's gonna be crying over how we catch these terrorists.  I guarantee that.  The FBI has 3 million of you innocent citizens  under surveillance for no reason.  Their tyrannical rape of our private data ends now.  FBI, be warned.  Your access to our lives is officially denied.  Pursue us at your own peril.  We do not compromise.  We will not back down.  We will destroy you.  We are  fsociety.  [sustained beep]  [dramatic music]    [faintly] Smartphone out there  It's never going to be  Come on, Kirby, screw the 3 million  Video's up.  [keyboard keys clicking] - 16 in the code name case.  Right, 16. One's deceased.  It doesn't help that Comey hasn't signed off on it.  Stop listening to that. It's making you more paranoid.  What about this, um, code name case thing?  They said they have 16 suspects under surveillance.  Video's getting hits. It's starting to get reposted.  They said one of the suspects  is dead.  They gotta be talking about Romero, right?  We have to be on that list.  I uploaded the full Berenstain call  and transcript to WikiLeaks.  Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa.  Come on, slow your roll, bro. No one's going anywhere.  We gotta monitor the fallout of the video  before anyone makes a move.  Exposing their program  is gonna shut down the investigation.  I don't care anymore.  I'm officially done.  You don't wanna do this.  You mean the, uh the Dark Army  doesn't want me to do this, bro?  No, no, no, no, I mean you.  'Cause when the Dark Army finds out the FBI nails you,  - which they will - Mm.  - It's lights out. - [door closes]  No questions asked. You feel me?  Hey, stop. [door closes]  You really think you can force me to stay?  Without a doubt.  Guys!    [indistinct chatter]  [soft piano music playing]    [singing off-key]  One of us sitting   At my window   Happy Fourth of July,  fellow Americans.  On this patriotic holiday,  we wanted to remind you,  under the Universal Declaration of Human Rights,  - privacy is a right - Yo.  We're still on a date, remember?  Why is this video such a big deal to you?    I'm gonna get another drink.  [indistinct chatter]  [woman singing indistinctly]    Hey, hey there, Ang.  Steve?  What are you doing here?  Oh, karaoke.  You know, gotta please the missus.  Missed you at your dad's barbecue today.  Yeah, I couldn't make it.  Right. Yeah, right.  You gotta be busy these days.  Congrats on everything.  Still, though, that's gotta be tough on your father, though.  Having to watch while you bow down  to those bastards that killed your mother.  [scoffs]  That can't be an easy pill for him to swallow.  [chuckles]  For you, though, swallowing's not really a problem,  now, is it? [chuckles]  Just, uh, who the hell do you think you are, anyway?    [cheers and applause]  You're a plumber.  Right, Steve?  You've had, what,  60 years at life?  That's the best you can come up with?  Literally cleaning shit for a living?  I'm 27,  and I've got a six-figure salary  at the biggest conglomerate in history,  and I'm just getting started.  That's who I am.  - Don't do this! - [zip ties rustling]  Now you're only at class B  felony kidnapping charges.  Don't bump it up to class A.  Shut the fuck up!  [dramatic music]  [breathing heavily]  You have no idea the shit you're in.    One of us should have been watching the GPS.  This is some next-level shit, man.  Okay, we didn't have a choice.  We couldn't let her go to the cops.  Yeah, well, she can ID all of us now.  She saw everything, our whole setup.  - She knows who we are. - Help!  Hello? I know you can see me!  God damn it. Trenton, go shut her up.  Go!  Fuck it.  I say we take our chances out there.  Let her go. Take off.  - Go our separate ways. - Yeah, right.  Then there'll be a manhunt with our faces on it.  Yeah, if there isn't one already.  Hello!  [door opens]    I need the bathroom.  Not yet.  I kinda can't control it.  Let me check downstairs first.  I really need to go.  It'll only take a second.    You guys don't know what the hell you're doing,  do you?  You're Muslim?  Is that what all this is about?  ISIS or something?  You're all a bunch of goddamn animals.  Make it quick.  [grunts, shouts]  We were all there. You heard the call.  They have a secret surveillance program on us.  Jesus, you're a broken record.  [grunts] Man, you wanna live in denial?  Go ahead, okay? Go right ahead.  All of you can't accept the fact that maybe we fucked up.  Okay? Take a look at the city.  It's going to shit, man.  Now, first it'll be blackouts.  Then it'll be the National Guard.  - Either we go now or - Jesus!  [footsteps approaching] Keep it together!  Um  Darlene.  This isn't exactly what I meant by "shut her up."  Okay, well  maybe our problem solved itself.  Oh, so, what, we just let her die?  We need to get her to a hospital.  No.  No, not until we're sure she won't talk.  Tie her up.  That's a nasty head wound.  Okay, well, then we don't have much time.  To do what?  Own her.  ["Everybody Wants to Rule the World" playing on piano]    Welcome to your life   There's no turning back   Grab her phone.  Even while we sleep   Got it.  I'll jump on her laptop.  We will find you   Acting on your   Best behavior   Turn your back on Mother Nature   She's got three email accounts on her phone.  Wants to rule the world     Not seeing anything on her corporate or Hotmail.    It's my own desire   There's gotta be something we can blackmail her with.  Just keep looking.  It's my own remorse   Help me to decide   Help me make   The most of freedom and of pleasure   Nothing ever lasts forever   Everybody wants   I got into her Gmail. Don't see anything in here.  Did you check for any hidden partitions?  - Obviously. - I'll check the office.  The light won't find you   Holding hand while the walls   Come crumblin' down   - Okay, anything? - No, nothing.  She's a lawyer. She's gotta have dirt.  Wait, I see Yahoo Mail in her web history.  Maybe we do a pass on her drive?  Try to recover any deleted files.  Had to fade it   Everybody wants to rule the world   Maybe we could target Yahoo's server logs  and cross-reference any incoming connections from here.  Might lead to an account name and password hash.  - I could use bash bug. - Or what about this?    [song ends]  [applause]  What if we do find something on her, huh?  What then?  Cazadores on the rocks, please.  [rock music playing]  I love that song.  You really have a desire to rule the world?    Oh, my desires go way beyond that.    Pretty sure my daughter's older than you.  What about your granddaughter?  [laughs]  No, no, she'll be ten tomorrow.  I'm taking her to the zoo, actually.    [cell phone buzzes] Thanks.  Well, better get back to my colleagues.  You could do that,  or you could stay here,  talk to me.    I had nothing to do with Five/Nine.  I'm in finance, for fuck 's sake.  You think I wanted to implode the economy?  Come o  No, I agree with Mr. Jones here.  I've been scratching my head on this one,  but evidence is evidence,  and holiday or not, I had to follow up on this.  Found this incriminating little guy  at a critical location tied to the Five/Nine hack.  The shell's microstamp leads right to your client's gun.  The gun that he had in the city of New York illegally,  I might add.  [whispering inaudibly]  Immunity is on the table  in exchange for a name.  That's all I care about.  Let's keep this friendly.  [gasps]  [exhales deeply]  [sighs]  I need a doctor.  Yeah, it's pretty bad.  Nice place you got.  Comfy.  Is your place in Greenwich this cush?  I worked hard for what I have.  You know, I'm glad  you came home,  but my friends  are freaking out.  Came up with this neat little plan  to blackmail you for your silence.  Hacked your emails.  We got some good stuff too.  Nice little Petraeus email scam you got going on there.  You shouldn't get hot and heavy  with your presiding judges, Suze.  I'm sure you're aware that's illegal,  but  I know you don't care about things like that.  You'd slime your way around it  and fuck us over just like you did my dad.  Who's dead, by the way.  But you  You aged very well.  The first time I saw you, I was four.  Still remember it.  On the news  in the courtroom when they cleared E Corp  of all the bullshit they put my family through.  And you were in the back  behind a sea of suits,  and you laughed.  It was so quick, no one even noticed.  No one but me.  Four-year-old little me.  So  I'm happy  I get to look you in the eye.  I have taken down your company,  taken over your home,  and now  I have you.  Okay.  [exhales] So you got me.  [exhales]  Where do we go from here?  I'm sure we can figure something out.  [scoffs]  I already have.  - [electricity crackles] - [grunts]  [dramatic music]    [breathing shakily]    [breathing heavily]  [laughs quietly]  [laughing intensifies]  She just  flipped out.  I was just trying to scare her back.  [soft dramatic music]  It was just a stun gun.  No.  No, no, she  No, she had a heart condition.  I mean, there were lots of emails  from her doctor.  You di  you didn't see any of those?    No.    Just go.  You two don't need to be here.  We'll wipe down the house and figure it out.    [door closes]  [door closes]      You think she actually  Has to be self-defense.  What's the plan?  We can't stay here.  Who knows who's gonna be waiting for you at home?  Dark Army, FBI, cops.  I can't leave my family.  If you had that much to lose,  you shouldn't have done this in the first place.  But I did this for them.  What we did was colossally fucking stupid,  and we can't afford not to realize that anymore.  Peace, Trent.  Yeah, I'm on my way.  [subway door chimes]    All right, my vote,  we leave it here,  wipe our prints, and just make a run for it.  We can't.  The others'll be back soon. They'll find her.  Why don't I just just text them  and tell them the place is burned?  Can't take the risk they won't listen  and come back anyway.  We need to get rid of it.  [scoffs]  We ain't doing shit.  I'll see if my guys can take care of it.  Okay, no offense, but I don't trust them either.  [sighs]  This is my responsibility.  [scoffs]  Well, if this is the part of the conversation  where you start throwing out ideas  like acid and wood chippers,  I ain't obliging.  This isn't a conversation.  We need to do what we always do when we go  into full wipe-down mode after a hack.  [dramatic funky music]    [indistinct police radio chatter]    Hurry up.  [dogs whining]  You know you screwed me last time?  You let all the dogs go.  I almost got fired.  What was that all about anyway?  Not like it matters. They all ended up back here.  So as a matter of policy,  it's gonna cost you double this time.  Double?  Wait, we don't have double, man.  We we barely pull out cash.  What about Ecoin?  It's worth more than cash anyway.  Pull out your phone.  What the fuck is in there?  I'm paying you enough for privacy.  [cell phone buzzes]  It's done.  All yours. [sighs]  Susan donated them from her cold storage.  It's not as if she can use them anymore.  She can pay for her own funeral.  [straining] No  [grunts] Oh, no, easy, easy, wait.  [grunts] Just move it  [grunts] God.  [both breathing heavily]  Rug's too big.  No shit.  We need to take her out.  [exhales]  This is some traumatizing shit.  You know that?  [body thuds] [both grunt]  [fire whooshing]  [soft dramatic music]    Hey.  Come to my place tonight.  Come on, let's get some sleep.  You shouldn't be alone right now.  I didn't know I could do that.  You did what you had to do.  No, that's the thing.  I don't feel bad.  I always knew there was a part of me  that wanted to do this to her for what she did, but  I figured when the time came,  something would stop me  But it didn't.  Hey, come on. Look, you're just in shock.  All right? Look, come on.  Just let's get some sleep.  Okay?  [intense music]    I did what you say for me.  Okay, I used key under mat. I put pizza inside.  No one inside. No one.  You didn't see anything weird or  No, no one inside.  No one inside.  Okay, fine.  [softly] That's $20.  Wait.  Uh  ca can I can I have the other pizza?  It's another delivery, man.  - It's another delivery. - [scoffs]  Look, give me the other pizza. I'm fucking nervous, man.    Have you guys ever thought about moving?  What's this?  Maybe we should move somewhere cheaper.  [clicks tongue, scoffs]  I don't think the city is safe anymore,  not with everything going on.  Don't be silly. Moving is impossible right now.  The bank is fighting us on the deed.  It's a mess. They're not letting anyone sell.  In fact, we may be at a bigger risk  of losing the money we did invest in this home.  But we can find another place.  [objects clatter]    Dinner's almost ready.  I'll check outside.    [knock at door]  [pounding at door]  [tires squealing]    Sir, open up. FBI.    Sir, if you don't open the door,  we're gonna break it down.    [door buzzing]  Mr. Markesh, we didn't  mean for you to be waiting here this long,  but with all the bureaucracy and red tape,  it's getting a little bonkers around here.  Yeah, well, I've been waiting here all night.  What the fuck is going on?  I feel your pain. [chuckles]  I've been stuck here all night too.  [laughs] It's depressing, isn't it?  [chuckles]  Here's what we're gonna do.  We're gonna talk, and all you have to do is listen.  Because, believe it or not, Mr. Markesh,  you could be real instrumental  in helping to solve this Five/Nine case.  [scoffs]  Leslie Romero.  Forgive me, hon, you do know your friend was found murdered?  My heart goes out to you. It's very unfortunate.  I went over to his mother's after everything went down.  I wanted to offer my condolences,  and I took a quick look around while I was over there.  That's when I found this.  An end of the world party featuring DJ Mobley.  I'm not an EDM fan myself,  but a quick search on the wayback machine,  and guess what we found all the way from 2003.  You.  An Angelfire page that you created  from back in the day.  Your very own DJ Mobley fan page.  In fact, curiously enough,  you were the only one that ever created a fan page of this guy.  Must have really spoken to you.  [chuckles softly] Trust me, I feel the same way  about "Romy and Michele's High School Reunion."  But like you, I found myself very much in the minority.  So a big fan.  Obscure DJ with a unique name.  Seems like the perfect recipe  for how a hacker handle gets born.  Here's the deal:  we want Tyrell Wellick,  not Tyrell Wellick's DJ.  Your friend is dead, and that's a sad thing,  but at this point, the best thing that could happen  would be if there's something you can tell me  names, people,  any information at all  that you can give us from that party that would help.  Lawyer.  I want a lawyer.  Do you have any evidence on this guy?  This is not the strategy we have implemented.  Top down, not bottom up.  We needed to get some traction.  This is a way.  He's a minor player that won't blow our strategy.  He'll start flushing some of these guys out.  Are you not watching the news?  We are in a world of shit  because of this leaked conference call.  The OPR is going to be coming down on us any day.  It's all over the Senate Intelligence Hearings.  The deputy director,  assistant director of Cyber Division  and the EAD are all getting fired.  Comey's about to announce that Operation Berenstain is dead,  and you just held this guy for 12 hours  for no reason.  You have to think about how this looks, Dom.  [sighs]  Whatever paranoia you've put into him is done,  just by picking him up.  Let him go.  [indistinct chatter]  [sighs]  [soft dramatic music]        I'll be back later.    [indistinct speech on TV]  I lost her.  I don't know what I did wrong.  I thought she was into me.  Don't let it get you in the dumps.  Getting into the mind of a woman,  it's the toughest route for even the best sources.  I can't get into it right now.  This fsociety video's blowing up in our face.  That's some fucked-up shit you guys did.  It's got me all paranoid.  How do I know you guys aren't watching me too?  We look like fools. Shit's worse than Snowden.  Privacy rights activist Edward Snowden.  - [sighs] - When you say I don't care  - about the right to privacy - Speak of the devil.  Because I have nothing to hide,  that's no different than saying  I don't care about freedom of speech  because I have nothing to say.  Despite the cybersecurity breach  in obtaining the information  on Operation Berenstain,  the controversy over privacy rights  has prompted calls for greater government transparency.  - Advocates are demanding - Look, I'm done with this.  You know, she's stone cold anyway, Dom.  I'm not gonna lie  I kinda got hurt.  She never talked about fsociety  or her old friends from back in the day?  She hasn't given up anything since you first put me on her,  and she bailed on me for some old dude at the bar.  A contact?  I think she's just into old dudes.  Paying employees only a portion of their wages.  In a statement, UWUA leaders claimed  [shower running]  Cisco?  Cisco?  Yo, what's up?  [dramatic music]    What's up?  How long you been up?  I just got up.  I jumped straight in the shower.  I'll be out in a sec, though.  You all right?  Yeah, fine.    [suspenseful music]              [door opens, bell jingles]    You all right?  Yo, what the fuck?
1 Every relationship's a power struggle.  Some of us need to be controlled.  Why did you first start listening to me?  I just followed your lead.  - I don't want to be a leader. - I want my position moved  to the risk management department.  If we pull milestone cases like Washington Township  There's not much we can do here today.  Closing the plant is not an option.  I'm being pressured to resign. Not doing anything to help.  What did you say your name was?  - I'm Ollie. - This is a rubber ducky.  It'll pull all cached passwords.  It can get every email, text message, and document.  You guys just got hacked.  - (ELECTRICITY SURGES) - (GRUNTS)  - (TAPE WHIRRING) - Jesus, what is that noise?  Tape's busted. Grab another one.  All of you can't accept the fact  that maybe we fucked up.  Who knows who's gonna be waiting for you at home?  Dark Army, FBI, cops.  He hacked me and stole my dog on top of it.  That proves it was him.  Where do you think you are right now?  - What do you mean? - You haven't been staying  with your mother.  (DRAMATIC MUSIC)  (KNOCKING ON DOOR)  People always told me growing up  that it's never about the destination.  It's about the journey.  But what if the destination  - is you? - (DOG BARKING)  - Elliot Alderson. - (DOG BARKING)  Are you Elliot Alderson?  Mr. Alderson, you're under arrest  for unauthorized use of a computer,  computer trespass, and grand larceny.  - Grab the computers. - Let's go.  Get the hard drives.  All the USB drives.  - Any digital media. - Yes, sir.  Check everywhere.  (INDISTINCT RADIO CHATTER)  Get animal control here for the dog.  Let's go. Let's go.  (Saint Saviour's "This Ain't No Hymn")  It depends on   Put your arms up. Spread 'em.  Surface area     Whether you do     Whether you don't     Put your left thumb on there.  Climb a mountain     - You suicidal? - No.  - You a drug addict? - No.  - You on any medication? - No.  - How you feeling right now? - Great.  I've spoken with the prosecutor,  and we can get the hacking charges reduced.  The theft charge is a little more difficult.  The plaintiff is really upset about the dog,  but I think we can negotiate.  Hey, you heard what I said, right?  When the judge asks you for a plea  you say,  "Not guilty."  Got it?  (GAVEL STRIKING)  In the case of People vs. Alderson  how does the defendant plead?  Guilty.  (GROANS) You're shitting me.  Mr. Alderson,  you do realize Mr. Lenny Shannon's dog  was an expensive purchase at $1,200?  That makes your theft a felony.  Let the record show,  Mr. Alderson nodded his head up and down indicating "yes,"  and you're admitting you hacked into Mr. Shannon's email,  social media, and bank accounts,  which will convict you on both counts  of computer hacking?  Again, let the record show,  Mr. Alderson nodded his head up and down indicating "yes."  You're aware of the gravity of these allegations?  You will be sentenced to jail.  What the fuck are you doing?  Yes  and I plead guilty.  Do you make this plea out of free will  - and free mind? - No! No.  He's fucking crazy.  Yes.  Mr. Alderson, I declare you guilty  of computer hacking, computer trespass,  grand larceny of fourth degree.  I hereby sentence you to 18 months in county jail.  Adios, you son of a bitch.  (Public Image Ltd.'s "The Order of Death")    - This your first time here? - Yes.  Do you have any intention of harming yourself?  - No. - Sit.    Don't move.  Put your chin on the bull's-eye.  Do not move.  Right side.  This is what you want, this is what you get   This is what you want, this is what you get   All right, let's go.    Need you to swing by at 3:00 p.m.    Problems with RT again.  Yes sir, Warden.    This is what you want   - (DOOR CLOSES) - Let's go.  Get naked.  What you want, what you get   what you get, what you want     Let's go. Get undressed.  Hurry up. All right, let's go.  Get undressed for me.    Squat down. Turn around.  Let me see the bottoms of your feet.  Your left foot. Now bend over.  Spread your ass. Bend over.  Spread 'em.  This is what you get   This is what you want, this is what you get   This is what you want, this is what you get   Read this right here,  confirm that these are all of your items,  and sign right here.  Speedy Gonzalez.  Fucking amazing, man.  Arrested, arraigned,  convicted within 24 hours.  Yeah, we heard about you, cuz.  In fact,  you're the only guilty man in the entire pen.  You know that?  Leon.  Okay, that's cool.  It's best you learn soon,  'cause you don't wanna be alone in a place like this.  Check it out. I'll give you the lowdown.  Routine. That's key.  It's best you find your routine,  whatever it is, and stick to it.  Mornings, we chow.  Afternoons, we hit the ball court.  Evenings, that's when I get my TV time.  Some people join church groups, or AA, or whatever,  but I like to bench personally.  Peace, brother.  (GRUNTS)  Ain't no Internet for us here.  Your best bet is going through some boxes  in the library full of old,  throwback classic DVDs.  You know what I'm saying?  I'm making my way through the '90s right now.  Nearly finished with "Mad About You."  You know, my man Paul Reiser  he just doesn't get the credit he deserve.  Man is spectacular.  Phenomenal.  Think I'ma start watching "Seinfeld" next.  I heard it's nails.  You look nervous, cuz.  Don't be.  Just do you.  I mean, I'd say we got a pretty solid  rapport going on anyway.  We stick together, things'll be just fine.  (LIGHTER CLICKS, FIRE CRACKLES)  Oh, that's Hot Carla. (CHUCKLES)  If you're a pyro,  she's your chick with a dick.  (CHUCKLES) Know what I'm saying?  Probably not.  Oh, whatever you do  stay away from these David Duke motherfuckers right here, man.  You don't say much, do you?  - No. - Well, that's cool, man.  I'm here to provide you with anything you may need.  I can pretty much find anything, and I mean anything.  Smokes, pills, hard shit,  porn, grandma porn. (CHUCKLES)  Some of these guys like that shit.  Gay porn.  I don't judge, man.  Whatever you need.  (INDISTINCT CHATTER)  Can you get me a notebook?  (Depeche Mode's "Walking in My Shoes")    See you in the morning.    I would tell you about the things they put me through   The pain I've been subjected to   But the Lord himself would blush   The countless feasts laid at my feet   That's how it happened.  That's all you missed.  That's everything.    Now I'm not looking for absolution    Forgiveness for   You got everything you arrived with?  Sign here stating such.  Here's a discharge report and the early release form.  Give that to the officers at the door.  You have the hack to thank for that letter.  I never released this many non-violent offenders before.  This mess with the economy  is affecting the prison budgets too.  You got lucky. Don't squander it.  That card's worthless out there now.  You want it for sentimental value,  or should I toss it?  Toss it.  Init 5, return to normal.  Is it possible to return  after 86 days in a 6x9-foot box?  (SOFT DRAMATIC MUSIC)    Init 5 is supposed to bring color and sound.  Instead the world's gray and quiet.    (INAUDIBLE)  (DRAMATIC MUSIC)  (PHONE RINGS)  Joseph Green's office. Monica speaking.  Hi, Monica. I'm a junior partner  at Johnson, Lerner, and Carlin.  I have sensitive documents for Mr. Green regarding  - this Flint water case. - Send them over.  I'll make sure he gets them right away.  I'm actually downstairs right now.  Super. Leave 'em at reception.  I'm sorry. I was told these are  very sensitive documents  and to only deliver them straight to Mr. Green  or your hands.  Sorry. I can't leave my desk,  but Mr. Green is out of the office until 2:00,  so he's not gonna read them right away anyway.  Obviously I would just bring them up myself,  but security down here is insane.  Can you please just come down?    (SIGHS) Okay, I'll be right down.      (PHONE RINGING)    Oh, hey.  Monica.  Uh, tell Joe to give me a call  when he gets back from lunch, will you?  Sure.        (INDISTINCT CHATTER)    (SUBWAY DOOR OPENS)  Hurry up.  I hacked my Dark Army contact.  Found an archive with screenshots  of his IRC chats with them.  Something called Stage 2.  It has to do with the femtocell.  I tried to tell Trenton and Mobley,  but I couldn't get in touch with either of them.  I called, message checked all the usual haunts.  Both are AWOL.  Okay, Trenton's parents are a wreck.  They filed a missing person's report.  (DOOR CLOSE ALARM CHIMES)  Between them missing and the channel archive  I'm freaking out.  I think Dark Army could be cleaning house.  That doesn't make sense.  I think they're behind my early release.  We need to talk to your contact.  (EXHALES SHARPLY)  We're not  really on the best of terms right now.  Doesn't matter.  They can't do this.  This wasn't part of the deal.  Let's keep moving.  Out through the basement, I'll leave through  the side door, and we'll meet at the seven.  Not yet.  I'm going to see her.  (SCOFFS) What do you mean?  I thought this was just to lose our tail.  Elliot, you're actually gonna go see her?  We seriously need to talk.  Shit has gone down.  I need to do this.  Okay.  Just be quick.  I'll wait in the stairwell.  Mom?  They taking care of you?  Room looks nice.  I'll see if they can fix the clock.  Looks like it's broken.  How are you?  A lot's happened  since last I saw you.  Had a really hard time.  Anyway,  just wanted to say thank you.  You helped me survive these last couple months.  I don't think I could have done it without you.  Okay.  Take care.                                  Init 5 is supposed to be simple.  - A fresh start. - (INDISTINCT ARGUING)  Restored connections.  This may be my first real moment of normalcy.  Taking a piss in private.  You hit me in the face with a fucking bat!  Thank God I didn't need stitches!  Well, I should have hit you harder.  We've been over this for the last three weeks.  Okay, I've walked you through every IRC conversation.  I am not gonna let this go.  Why the fuck are you sending pictures of me  while I'm asleep to the Dark Army?  How many times do I have to tell you?  Letting them know that you're with me keeps you safe.  I was trying to protect you.  Then why aren't you telling me about Stage 2  and what you guys did with the femtocell?  We've been over this a million  You've both got to calm down!  (SOFT DRAMATIC MUSIC)  Yes, the shit has officially hit the fan.  Here's what we're gonna do.  Okay, okay. Let's all take a beat.  We're gonna settle down here.  Relax.  Elliot?    Hey, Elliot. You all right?  Elliot?  Come back to Earth.  I thought you wanted to find Mobley and Trenton?  (QUIETLY) Yeah.  Yeah.  We need to know what happened to them, right?  (SCOFFS) I can't keep up with you two.  Look, I'm not risking my life to help with this.  I'm not doing it. I'm not doing it.  Your Dark Army contact.  You have one?  You must.  (EXHALES SHARPLY)  If they find out I was involved, it'll be my ass.  Okay? I'll be the next one missing.  Only there won't be any questions  about where I went.  You better be more reliable than your sister.  Hey,  what the hell just happened?  I was gonna ask you the same.  Why were you talking with them?  What are you talking about?  One second everything was normal.  All of a sudden, you stopped responding.  It was like you shut down.  I had to say something.  It's unfortunate what both your country  and the company have been through  in the last several weeks.  Yes.  A succession of unfortunate events.  The timing of which almost seems intentional.  Well, at least there's good news for both of us.  Your little pet project  came through even better than you thought.  I must admit, she surprised me.  It's a good thing that she did the right thing in the end.  It's too bad.  You know, for all she's done,  it won't matter.  The failure of the bailout has left me in  a rather obsequious position.  We failed our financial stress test,  so we won't be able  to keep up all our facilities.  As of noon this Friday,  I'm sorry to say, the Washington Township plant  will be taken over  by the federal government.  (SCOFFS) And here I thought we were  taking a step forward,  but here we stand two steps back.  Your actions remind me of your predecessor, Phillip.  And here comes the veiled death threat.  (CHUCKLES)  You wanna take a shot at me?  Be my guest.  The appointment of a new CEO  isn't going to stop the federal government  from taking over the plant.  I flew for 13 hours and 35 minutes,  if you have a point, it's time.  I needed that bailout money,  and I no longer have it.  Thanks to your little shootout in China.  What do I need now?  Cash.  Lots of it.  I could see a scenario where the Chinese government,  in a bid to establish itself  as the new global leader of the 21st century,  loans E Corp the money it needs  At a low interest rate.  Perhaps even zero.  As a gesture of goodwill to the American people.  With that cash, I could save your plant  from the clutches of the federal government,  and finally,  when a peaceful China appears benevolent,  well (CHUCKLES)  That's an easier pitch  for me to get onto the President's desk.  I will be happy to go back and talk  with the Chinese government.  I'm sure that they will be most agreeable,  but the next time you threaten my plant  What?  What?  The only move left in that scenario is a third World War.  You see? I'm a mercenary.  I don't play fair.  I play what I want.  When you deal with a mercenary,  then all decorum gets tossed out the window,  so you go ahead with your cute threats  and your watch beeps.  Order  will not protect you anymore, my friend.  I will rain chaos,  even if it hurts me,  'cause I would rather see you lose  than win myself.  (QUIETLY) Oh.  That's all the time I have.  (DRAMATIC MUSIC)  On May 9th, we took down  the world's biggest conglomerate.  We all had the same intention  me, Darlene, Mobley, Trenton, Romero  to change the world,  but there was one other player,  the Dark Army.  We never did find out what their intentions were.    Pwnie Express pwn phone.  A phone loaded with 103 network monitoring and attack tools.  A dream device for pentesters and hackers.  His name is Xun.  Xun's boss is Whiterose,  who helped us bring down Evil Corp.  Xun and his people wanted the femtocell.  Why?  I don't know,  but soon we'll know everything.  We're hacking Xun.  - Something's not right. - (BREATHING HEAVILY)  I feel off.  It's like we're overheating.  - We'll be fine. - (DISTORTED INDISTINCT CHATTER)  We're up. I've got a connection.  Time to set the meet with Xun.  Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, wait. No, no, no.  I thought we were operating from here?  This only gets his phone mic live.  I'm going to ask them about Stage 2.  What?  Even if they don't tell me anything,  at least it'll get them talking about it,  and that's all we need right now.  Oh, my God. Jesus, bro,  you're just like your sister.  First the number. Now the meet.  I mean, you don't stop. I'm not doing it, man.  These guys won't think twice about killing you on the spot.  Trust me.  I have a way to get him talking.  Fuck yeah. I would love to meet him.  No, he's not meeting you. He's meeting Mr. Robot.  What'd you say?  (QUIETLY) Nothing.  I meant me.  Me. He's meeting me.  Something's happening with us.  We can't do this.  I got this.  (CLOCK TICKING)  This is big.  How did you get  The levels of toxicity are still  above regulation,  right?  What's the next course of action in a case like this?  Uh, well, this definitely falls under what we call  substantial and specific danger  to public health and safety.  You know we're bound by law  to protect your anonymity, right?  There could be money for a whistle-blower  in a situation like this.  You're gonna wanna get a lawyer.  I'm not doing this for the money.  I just want it to happen fast.  Okay.  I'll take this to the deputy director.  You mind sticking around for a while?  No.  (DOOR OPENS)  (FOOTSTEPS FADE)  (DISCORDANT KEYBOARD MUSIC PLAYING)    (INTENSE DEEP BASS MUSIC)      Hey!  (MOUTHING)    Hey!  Hey  All right, yo. This is our stop.  Yo, I don't get it.  Are you nervous or something, man?  - Because you can't be - No, I  Never mind. I'm good.  (SPEAKING MANDARIN)                Flying drone into the capital of this great nation.  Meanwhile, the FBI  gets caught with its hand in the cookie jar  trying to work in legal gray areas.  Listening in on phone calls. Reading emails.  The FBI has 3 million of you innocent citizens  under surveillance for no reason.  Okay? The backlash?  It boggles the mind.  If you've got nothing to hide  then what do you have to worry about?  Especially, at a little surveillance?  - Oh, shit. - Help bring down  the world's worst criminals.  The FBI needs to catch this guy  by what means necessary.  (VOICE CUTTING IN AND OUT) (ELECTRICITY HUMS)  symbol of capitalism.  Unless it falls on the capital's doorstep  that's not vandalism.  That's a victory lap, people!  Tyrell Wellick wants us to know,  - he's not done - (FOOTSTEPS OVER LAPTOP)  (DOOR OPENS)        - Why are they leaving? - They weren't expecting you.  Look at me!  Tell Whiterose I wanna know what Stage 2 is.  (CLOCK TICKING)  (ELECTRICITY HUMMING)  (TIRES SQUEAL, CAR HORNS HONKING)  Second one tonight.  Brownouts. We've been bracing ourselves  since Comet Electric went on strike.  I'm sorry to keep you waiting. Deputy Director Phelps.  Office of Investigations.  - Hi. - Jeff told me a little about  what you've brought us.  Can you come with me?  My colleagues and I wanted to ask you a few questions.  We're so indebted to citizens like you.  Thank you.  I never cease to be astonished by the heroics  of everyday people.  Did you come all the way down from New York just for this?  Or are you based in New Jersey?  You know, I should probably get  some contact information from you.  - Jeff promised anonymity. - Which is a nice idea,  to be sure.  Is Jeff going to be in the meeting?  I know. It sounds complicated,  but how it works is the commission will want  to discuss this with you after they review.  Maybe I'm misunderstanding, but  You do work at E Corp, yes?  What?  I never said that.  What is your position there?  The more we know about the origins of these documents  the quicker we can process them.  Actually, could I get my files and the drive back?  You've made it all the way down here.  Let's not stop now, shall we?  I'm sorry.  This trip has taken a lot longer than I thought it would,  and I can't miss the last train back.  But, Angela, my colleagues  in the other room are eager to talk to you.  No, thanks.  I gotta go.  (DOOR OPENS)  - How'd it go? - Everything's on track.  Good.  The lights have been flickering.  Yeah. The streetlights too.  - Brownout's started. - Hey.  I gotta talk to you for a minute.  I left that busted VHS tape at the Smart House.  - What VHS tape? - That fsociety video.  Relax. I'm sure we got it.  - We cleaned the place good. - No, I left it.  It's not here.  We wiped the whole house down.  Do you remember grabbing it?  I know I didn't.  - We have to go back. - Oh, Jesus Christ, Darlene.  We cannot go back. That was a goddamn month ago.  The cops could have been there already,  and you're just remembering this now?  It doesn't matter. I have to go.  Fucking hell, Darlene. I swear.  Why are you even using VHS tapes in the first place?  Because it's cool?  There's a million filters on Final Cut.  My face is on that tape.  (SIGHS)  Fine. Fine,  but I'm going, all right?  Feds are looking for you, not me.  Where is it?  I think I set it on that weird lamp  in the living room.  Maybe it fell behind.  All right.  Uh, hang on.  Thank you.  Really.  (DOOR CLOSES)  You look burnt.  Yeah, I'm getting tired.  You can stay here and crash on the couch.  (GRUNTS) Home would be better.  I'm not feeling right.  They're gonna be watching.  All the more reason.  I need them to see me living a normal life.  Oh, good point,  but assume the worst.  Your place is probably bugged.  Be careful coming back here.  I'll stay up and keep listening.  (DOORBELL RINGS)  Hey, one of your fellow tenants let me in the building.  - (BAG RUSTLES) - Look what I got.  Your favorite. Nia's gyros.  Mind if I come in?  Actually, yeah. I'm  Don't worry. I left my handcuffs at home.  (DOOR CLOSES)  Wow.  Gosh.  Nice place.  They really take good care of you here, huh?  (CHUCKLES SOFTLY)  E Corp housing?  Are you working for them?  Working for who, Angela?  I need you to leave.  (SIGHS)  I had this dream,  which if you know me, is pretty rare.  It was good at first.  Exciting.  There was the beautiful woman.  Sexy even.  But then, man, did it go downhill fast.  By the end, I was being choked underwater.  Ollie Parker told me about the CD at Allsafe.  It was literally the first thing out of his mouth  when we interviewed him two months ago.  I've been having you tracked ever since.  Including your little field trip  out there to the Nuclear Regulatory Commission today.  It's clear you're freaking out about something.  I don't know how any of this ties together,  but  eventually someone will connect the dots,  and it'll catch up to you.  So I'm being real with you right now.  Next person's not gonna offer you food.  They're gonna grab you off the street  and throw you in a dark cell.  But you still have one hand to play.  That's me.  In that dream I had,  when I was being drowned,  it was when I stopped fighting it.  When I finally let go  and stopped struggling so much  That's when I survived.  (DOOR OPENS AND CLOSES)  (GROANING AND PANTING)  (STATIC OVER LAPTOP)  (DOOR CLOSES)        (FOOTSTEPS)  - (DOOR CLOSES) -     -  - XUN: Elliot.          (DRAMATIC MUSIC)    It began as a failure.  Everything.  My existence.  I should recognize that.  Accept it.  For me there's no such thing as normalcy.  My dead father appears and disappears at will.  I talk to you, an invisible friend.  I'd ask if you're normal,  but you never talk back.                (ELECTRICITY HUMMING)    - (POUNDING ON DOOR) - (GASPS)    (POUNDING ON DOOR)  How can I return to normal  when the SUV belonging to the man I murdered  is parked outside my apartment?  (CAR HORN HONKS)    Normal?  I have no normal.  Hello, Ollie.
1   The lights have been flickering.  Yeah, the streetlights too.  Brownout's started.  Mr. Alderson, you're under arrest.  Grab the computers, get the hard drives,  all the USB drives  I want you to lead the D.C. op.  You can stay here and crash on the couch.  Home would be better.  Have you spoken to the administration?  We're not there yet.  There he is, Terry Colby, the CTO.  You can't be offering me a job there.  You're testifying against them.  In business, grudges aren't really a thing.  - You do work at E Corp. - I never said that.  Best case scenario, I lose my job  and plea bargain down a jail sentence.  I'm backed into a corner.  I wanted to be Claudia Kincaid so bad.  Ollie Parker told me about the CD at Allsafe.  Eventually, someone will connect the dots,  and it'll catch up to you.  The Dark Army are just hackers.  I clipped one of the shooters in the leg.  He turned the gun on himself.  He erased his history.  Tyrell's always surprising me with little gifts.  [cell phone buzzes]  I have a contact attempting to trace the phone calls,  but he needs more time.  Mobley and Trenton both are AWOL.  [banging at door]  In that dream I had, when I was being drowned,  it was when I stopped fighting it.  That's when I survived.  Hello, Ollie.  It's a gift. I  I wanted to give it to you before I forgot.  That's my last advance copy.  It's trending on Amazon's Movers & Shakers.  It's ahead of Trump's latest.  Can you believe that cocksucker is actually running this time?  I mean, if I wanted, the things I have on him  could put me on his ticket.  Politics  is for puppets.  Besides, if you did run for office,  you'd no longer be "The Last Honest Man."  [chuckling]  Thank you, Terry.  Anyway, I need you to see our friend,  Winston Campbell,  about this issue tonight.  I understand he still owes you some favors.  [sighs] He does.  But a UN allowing China to annex the Congo?  Winston has the president's ear.  Oh, I get it,  but I got to be honest, Philip  it's a little out there.  I know from reading the "Times"  that China's got the tip of its dick in the Congo  [serene classical music]  And you want Winston  to tell Obama to look the other way  while the chinks fuck it dry.  I mean  I don't know, to give them  national sovereignty of another nation?  It's a little out there, don't you think?  Central Africa's a shit show.  After climate change,  it'll be a bunch of soon-to-be corpses  raging a civil war.  The Oval Office could spin this  as a humanitarian intervention.  Well, all due respect,  it's bullshit.  If he tells the ambassador  to vote "yes" on this,  Obama will be forever known  as the man who gifted Africa to China.  No.  That's the fine point.  Obama just needs to tell his ambassador  to abstain.  I, uh I don't suppose  you're gonna tell me  what all this has to do with your ambitions.    Do this for me, Terry    And I promise I won't forget your help.    I mean, the fucking Congo.  [laughing] You know, the Congo.  I mean, is there a pocket of the world  you don't have your hand in?  You're trading countries like, uh like playing cards.  Isn't that what history is all about?  Politically, economically, geographically  imaginary lines being drawn and redrawn,  over and over again?    Yeah.  Um, Philip, I got to know.    What do you do it for?  I mean, all of it?    Honestly?  Yeah.    In my life, as I was making my way,  I always asked the question,  am I the most powerful person in the room?    The answer needed to be yes.  To this day,  I still ask that question.  And the answer is still yes.  In every room in the entire world,  the answer is yes    With the exception of one.  Or two.  And that drives me.    I intend to leave a legacy,  the standard of which was set by God  when he created the Earth  and man after his own image.    Anything less is  not worth mentioning.       [singers screaming indistinctly]    I'm still against this.  The feds see us with him,  no telling what conclusion they'll draw.  If you had done the job you were tasked with,  we wouldn't be here.  He's coming.  [window sliding]  Hello, Ollie.  [garbled radio chatter]  Why isn't she saying anything?  Is she trying to get inside my head?  [garbled radio chatter]  I still feel like she can hear us.  I feel like she can see me.  You're not going anywhere.  I know you're working with my husband.  Tell me where he is.  Sorry, I don't know.  You're being honest this time.  But you're gonna find him for me.  No one's gonna find him.  I don't think I'll be able to do that.  [chuckles]  Now you're back to lying.  Should I tell her the truth?  Should I tell her that her husband's dead?  You do that, I can guarantee we don't walk out of here alive.  On my first date with Tyrell,  I saw this stunning redhead  wearing a pair of cubic zirconia earrings.  I asked him what he would do to get me those earrings.  He told me he would do whatever was necessary.  I told him I wanted him to fuck that woman  and bring me her earrings.  The next morning,  I woke up to a gift.  These are the cheapest things I own,  yet they're my favorite.  Tyrell would always do what was necessary.  And at the end of that,  I would receive a gift.  That's why I know he's alive.  That's why he's been calling me  That's why he sent me this phone  Because he's doing what's necessary.  You talked to him?  He called me last night.  That's impossible.  He wants to let me know that he's okay.  He has a plan.  He told you that?  No.  We haven't spoken.  He's protecting me.  That's what you do for your partner.  The calls come up as unknown.  I've tried to have him tracked, but I've been  unsuccessful.  Is this something you might be able to accomplish?  This bitch is blood simple, Elliot.  She's the wife of the psycho who strangled that woman  the same psycho who is this close to doing the same to you.  If we're around when she learns that Tyrell is dead,  you don't think she'll have us killed?  He's right.  It's not worth it.  I'm sorry.  Can't help you.  Do you really want to say no to me?  I mean, where did he come from?  I found him gasping on the couch.  And you brought him here?  I wasn't gonna fuckin' leave him there.  He was saying your name; I figured he was one of your guys.  Vincent. Vincent!  What is wrong with him?  How am I supposed to know?  Where are the others?  He was the only one there.  I had to cab it straight back here.  Who the fuck is this guy?  He was one of the D.C. guys who did the Capitol Hill job.  We got to get this guy to a hospital.  No hospitals.  How do we know he doesn't have a tracker on him  or a bug?  Jesus.  That looks like internal bleeding.  This guy's gonna die.  All we got to do is drop him off at an ER.  [wheezing]  He knows my face  my name.  He's gonna wake up to a drip of morphine.  I can't risk him talking.  And what?  He knew what he was getting himself into.  If we don't get him help right now,  he's gonna die.  How does that not compute for you?  Our focus is finding Trenton and Mobley.  Trenton and Mobley might already be dead!  Jesus, you're completely fucking losing it!  You wanna act like you're on top of things,  but you're not.  You're buried way underneath.  You're not a leader.  You're not special.  Yeah, you guys did the hack, but you fumbled your way  into this ridiculous freak accident.  That ain't leading!  It's time to drop the charade  like this was all part of the plan  and wake the fuck up!  There's no way that you can justify letting him die.  Where's Agent Yang?  Excuse me?  Agent Yang?  Back there.  [camera shutter clicking]  Yes, yeah, yeah, that's correct.  It's no court.  Yeah, I got it. I got it.  Do we know the ETA on that?  I'm sorry, conference call.  Can you believe this house?  Mm, yup, sure is real nice.  We should seriously consider pooling our money together.  It's probably going to be on the market soon.  So what happened here exactly?  I was told it had something to do with the D.C. activists.  Teabaggers, yeah.  They were found two days ago in Maryland.  A car chase ensued. Ended badly.  One got away; the rest were apprehended.  This is where they were supposed to meet.  Owner's an E Corp lawyer.  Supposed to be on vacation.  Starting to look more like she's missing.  I'm sorry, hon, I'm still not entirely sure  why I was called here.  That's from someone three doors down.  He was seen here.  He and another male were spotted around 10:00 p.m.  getting into a cab.  The description matches a person of interest  in your code name case.  Wait, he was here tonight?  Have you found the cab?  If this is really the guy, why did we burn the house?  How come we didn't put surveillance on it?  What was the thought process here?  You know Director Comey's taking a more aggressive  strategy on everything ever since the shit hit the fan  over that video.  Yeah.  I can walk you through the report if we need to.  Uh, check with Agent Burke, yes.  [somber music]    Is this the future  I was fighting for?    The system is hung,  frozen in limbo.    Did we lose the fight?  Maybe wars aren't meant to be won.  Maybe they're meant to be continuous.  Maybe Ray had it right all along.  These people are certifiable.    You should be going home,  not working with these wack jobs.  She's a grieving wife.  She wants to believe he's alive.    Who do you think's making those calls?  [scoffs] Her husband's the most wanted man  in the country.  A ton of people hate her just by association.    We need to stop at Micro Center.  We're only making one stop:  your apartment.  The cops confiscated everything;  it'll be weeks before I can get it back.  If you want this done tonight,  I need hardware.  This is a composite from Ollie Parker's testimony.  This is a sketch from a description a neighbor  gave us just now at Susan Jacobs's house.  These are from two separate witnesses.  This is the same guy.  We have fresh evidence on this guy.  He's not tainted.  We're gonna put out a BOLO.  If you do that, the Dark Army will kill him.  Not this again.  If this sketch gets on the news,  he's as good as dead.  I'm telling you, they won't let one of their own  be known by law enforcement like that.  As it is now, they might already know.  We lost Sunil Markesh.  We can't let it happen with this guy.  Just give me  Dom?  We're going to the media for this one.  And we're using this.  [tense music]  Look, this whole, slow roll  that you and the rest of us have been working up,  it didn't work.  It's time to embrace the Bureau's new direction.    Yeah, it's Santiago.  Well, tell him I need him right away.  Dom  I have Agent Thomas looking into cab companies.  He may have found a lead to where this guy went.  Hook up with him.    A cryptocurrency regulated by Evil Corp.  The hypocrisy isn't surprising.  A special Evil Corp discount if we use their new money.  If you ever needed a sign that our work is not done yet,  this is it.  Even if you track the call to some crank yanker  down the street, when you give him the info, you should  Place the call far away.  Like another country far.  [phone buzzing]  The phone.  It's the one Joanna gave me.  [ominous music]    Hello?  [heavy breathing]    [line beeping]  Tell me you heard that too.  It can't be him, can it?  [footsteps echo]  And why is Mr. Robot suddenly gone?  [ominous music continues]    [indistinct chatter on PA]  Keep going.  Elliot? What does he have to do with stage two?  I was hoping you could tell me.  I could've just dropped him off at the door.  - You didn't have to - I couldn't just leave him.  I needed to be here.  You were right back there.  I'm not special.  It's Elliot.  He's the one with the plan  the one they're taking seriously.  [dramatic music]    You know, I always thought it was crazy  we got away with this.    I thought there was something special about me  that made it happen.  But it wasn't me,  Mobley, Trenton, or Romero.  It was him.    It's always been him.  When I was five,  our parents took us to Coney Island,  my dad's idea of an Alderson family outing.  What are you doing?  Making a high-powered antenna.  I need to piggyback off someone else's wifi.  I remember looking up at this roller coaster  thinking it was the highest thing I had ever seen.  [phone buzzes]    Of course, I wasn't tall enough to go on it,  so my dad went with Elliot,  and I had to wait with my mom.  I don't remember exactly what happened next,  but somehow I got lost.  You know, most kids get scared shitless  when they're alone, but I wasn't.  I loved it.  All of a sudden, I felt  someone grab me around the waist and pick me up.    It was this old woman.  She was skinny and tall.  She had this smeared, almost pink lipstick.    She held on to me tight.  I thought about screaming,  but I didn't.    I didn't want to.    We went to Nathan's,  and she said that I could have whatever I wanted.  My parents never asked me what I wanted  ever.  It was the first time I ever  really felt special.  We started driving to her house,  and  I definitely remember thinking  that something wasn't right,  but I just looked at her and her lipstick  and let it happen.  And then we got to her house, and she showed me my room,  and it had one of those beds  with the curtains around it.  And I did feel like a princess.  I remember thinking that this was my new home  and my new life, and I didn't  have to see my parents ever again.  It was like a wish I had that all of a sudden came true.  And I went to sleep just hoping  that this wasn't all a dream,  and I wasn't just gonna wake up in my old bed.    And sure enough, the next morning,  I was still there.  But then the police barged in.  And when they took me downstairs,  there were cops everywhere.    I didn't even get to see the woman again.    And then they put me in their car  and took me home.  I still wonder what my life would've been like  if I had stayed.  But if I had stayed    Then I wouldn't have Elliot.    There are a lot of guys working on this.  None of them can figure it out.  What's that for?  For impersonating an NYPD officer.  All cell carriers have a law enforcement hotline.  Instead of hacking the carrier,  if the situation's urgent enough,  you can just ask them to track a blocked call for you.  [tense music]    Is it done?  Not yet  need a few minutes for the spoof fax to go through.  It needs to propagate through their system.  No one in the world uses fax anymore except cops.    Half of me wants it to be him.  Half of me doesn't.    Before working for the Wellicks, I had a list of clients,  all of them eccentric in one form or another.  I worked for this one guy  who used to masturbate in the car. [Laughing]  He used to have me drop him off at Carnegie Hall.  He was a first chair violinist  God, now he wants to have  a heart-to-heart.  Focusing on you helps drown him out  One of those, uh, Stradivarius violins from the 1700s.  Like talking to someone in a crowded restaurant.  Take it everywhere with him  All the other voices and noises  fade into the background.  Somehow your brain is able to decode the components  of that complex auditory space.  Can you feel it?  Good. That gives us time to talk.  [faint humming]  Is Mr. Robot MIA because he's afraid?  Afraid of what I might find when I'm done with this hack?  [faint humming]  Why did that phone call freak him out?  Could he have lied about Tyrell?  What's his move here?  Do you remember the last thing he wanted?  He kept wanting to come back home, remember?  There must be something here that he needs.  He's been bringing it up since we left prison.  Can you help?  Can you look?  Do you see anything?  And now they're moving to the next step.  Yes, the next step.  You know what the next step is?  Blackouts. Why?  So they can take away your power,  and I am not talking about your electricity.  I'm talking about your computers,  your access to the Internet, your television, your phone.  What does that all add up to?  Information.  Those wounds aren't fresh.  Do you have any idea what happened to him?  - It puts them in control. - Uh, we  we went over to his place and found him like that.  Is he gonna be all right?  He's on a respirator.  They're gonna do a CT scan  and run some other tests.  We should know more in about an hour or so.  - Okay. - Thank you.  [exhales]  Well, we got an hour to kill.  Hungry?  - Yeah. - Yeah.  Hi, this is Detective Richard Hannigan, NYPD,  11th precinct, badge number 22350.  I just faxed over an exigent form  for a suicidal person.  Can you confirm that you received it?  Yeah, I got a guy who called his girlfriend's cell  saying he's gonna shoot himself.  Yeah, all of them came in blocked.  Perfect, can you see if it's one of yours?  Can you ping that phone for a current location?  [tense music]    You've been a huge help.  I'll call you if there's something else.        Got it.  Goddamn it.  Is that where the phone is right now?  Within 12 meters.  Is it him?  [dark music]    Clear.  Clear!    Trust me,  he wouldn't be calling from that house.    Has issued a BOLO on the man pictured in this sketch.  Given FBI cyber involvement,  we can only speculate at this time  that the man in this sketch  may be wanted in relation to the infamous Five/Nine attack.    I have money stashed at a hackerspace on Canal.  Okay, we make sure Vincent's all right.  We wipe your place down, and then we bolt.  We can target them from afar  for more intel on Trenton and Mobley.  Darlene, you know we can't leave.  They don't own us.  We played by their rules,  and those fuckers still hit Trenton and Mobley.  [dramatic music]    I am so sick  of always worry about switching cabs  and phones and trains and always looking behind  Just calm down, okay?    He was waiting here?  - Yeah, they were - They?  Who was he with? Male or female?  Dom, we're reviewing the security footage.  Let her finish.  A woman.  His girlfriend, I think.  They were waiting here.  They were really concerned about their friend.  They waited for about an hour,  and then I told them we were sending him up for some tests.  And that's when they left?  I'm sorry, I wasn't paying attention.  If it helps, I told them to come back in an hour.  At this point, they're definitely not coming back here.  He probably saw the BOLO.  He's freaking out. Probably hiding.  It might take some time, but we'll get him.    I got your messages.  Sorry it took so long to get here.    What's wrong?  Why did you start fsociety?    I didn't want to involve you.  An FBI agent  came to my place.    Look, let's just sit here  and chill a minute.  Right? We'll come up with something.  Sometimes  the best decision is not making one.    [whispers] Fine.    Why'd it take you so long to call it in?  The TV's right there.    It's okay; you didn't do anything wrong.  I'm just trying to figure something out.  It's probably because Janice turns it to the news  when her shift starts.    They didn't see it  the TV they're coming back.  They probably didn't go too far.    I can fix this, okay?  - I will fix - I'm gonna confess.  I've already called my lawyer.  I'm on my way to meet her now.  I can't keep pretending like this is gonna go away.  We can't beat them.  Trust me, I've tried.  No matter what we do,  we will always lose to them.  I'm gonna tell 'em that I planted the femtocell.    I would never involve any of you,  so I'm just gonna own up for what I did.  But sooner or later, Elliot,  this will all catch up to you.    Thank you.  Ooh.  What the fuck are you doing?  What?  If you wanted some,  you should've ordered your own.  You know I'm not into that family-style shit.  Oh. Oops.  [slurping]  [laughing]  You're such an asshole.  How am I supposed to help the ones I care about  when every step I take puts them in greater danger?  This was my plan,  and I hid in a cage while everyone else  took all the risk.  I mean, fuck.  We have to talk to each other on the subway.  It's a long way from getting high  and watching "Back to the Future II."    Yeah, we never did get around to doing that.    Excuse me, have you seen a young couple  walk past recently coming from that direction?  No, I didn't see anyone.  She's got dark hair; he's wearing a baseball hat.  [sighs]  Do you remember when I found you at the Queens Museum?  You were pacing  and screaming at the staff,  because they couldn't see  whoever you said you were seeing.  Was it your dad then too, or was it someone else?    I don't remember that at all.  Elliot, I don't know if you started all this because of him.  But whatever he is,  you can't work with him.  Don't trick yourself into thinking that.    If I was gonna eat around here, where would I go?  There's nothing around here.  You've got to go over, like, five blocks.  There's still a few places open over there.    [alarms blaring]  [car horns honking]    You should probably get off here.    I don't want to leave her.    [brakes squeal and hiss]    [suspenseful music]    [suspenseful music continues]    [panting]    Send all units to Watts and 6th Ave.    [distant sirens]  [brakes squeal]  [engine rumbling]  [distant sirens]  - [gunfire] - [screams]  - [sirens approaching] - [gunfire]  [siren wailing]  [tires screeching]  Get down! Down on the ground!  [gunshot]  Green!  Green! FBI!  Don't shoot!  [sirens wailing]
1 Alexa, when is the end of the world?  Unless a future technology goes very wrong indeed,  Earth is most likely to be destroyed  in several billion years' time.  The president can't go to Congress  with a bailout right now.  I could see a scenario where the Chinese government  loans E Corp the money it needs  at a low interest rate,  perhaps even zero.    You want me to convince the class  to remove the contingency.  Your little pet project  came through even better than you thought.  You do work at E Corp. Yes?  What is your position there?  I never said that.  I'm gonna confess.  I've already called my lawyer.  We can't beat them.  No matter what we do,  we will always lose to them.  Next person's not gonna offer you food.  They're gonna grab you off the street  and throw you in a dark cell.  I've tried to have him tracked,  but I've been unsuccessful.  - Got it. - Is that where  the phone is right now?  - [door creaks] - Okay, okay.  We're gonna settle down here.  Hey, Elliot.  You can stay here  and crash on the couch.  Home would be better.  Is Mr. Robot MIA  because he's afraid of what I might find?  Send all units to Watts and 6th Ave.  - [machine gun firing] - [glass shattering]  Angela's right. We can't beat them.  But we don't have to lose to them either.  Maybe there's a way to stop them from winning.  Mr. Robot, the ever-present silent observer,  watching me at all times,  even when I can't see him,  listening in on our conversations.  He's always a step ahead of me,  'cause he is me.  Maybe he's the key to this.  Maybe he's always been the key to this.  What if I could be the silent observer?  [sparse piano music]  In middle school, I took a Visual Basic class.  I remember my friend Sam telling me about a technique  he used to induce lucid dreams so he could study in his sleep.  You lie in bed and repeat this mantra in your head:  Mind awake. Body asleep.  Mind awake. Body asleep.  You're in this with me,  so it'll work better if we do it together.  Just say it with me.  [whispering] Mind awake.  Body asleep.  Mind awake.  Body asleep.  Mind awake.  Body asleep.  Mind awake.  Body asleep.  Mind awake.  Body asleep.  - Mind awake. - [baby fussing]  - Body asleep. - [baby cooing]  Mind awake.  Body asleep.  Mind awake.  Body asleep.    Shh.  [shushing]  [footsteps approaching]  Ma'am. What do you want to do?    Let me see it again.    Sure this is accurate?  You know, of all the gifts he sent,  this is the greatest we ever received.  [Harry Waters Jr.'s "Night Train" playing on radio]    [radio static crackling]  So you're not gonna tell me where you're taking me?  You can't do this. I want my phone back.  [door handle jiggling]  [door handle jiggling]  I'm not the only one with the files.  You think I didn't make copies?  There are copies everywhere.  A lot of people are gonna know that I'm missing.  [music volume increases]    This isn't my blood, in case you're wondering.  You need to finish this evaluation.  I understand you have your procedure,  but these are extreme circumstances.  I believe the best use for me is back at the crime scene.  We should be getting Director Comey involved.  - That's how serious this is. - You're in shock.  At you and the way you're treating me right now, sure.  Can I speak to Agent DiPierro for a minute?  Alone?  [door opens and closes]  You know I can't leave.  Yes, you can.  [sighs]  You're going off the handle.  They're gonna force you to take leave  if you keep talking like that.  This is all your fault.  I told you not to release the sketch.  I told you Dark Army was gonna come after him.  And not only are several people dead,  but I almost just got killed out there.  Well, that makes me feel good.  It's not every day I get casually blamed  for the deaths of innocent people.  Clearly, Dark Army is behind this.  And who knows how far up this goes?  The Chinese government is definitely involved.  They're hiding something.  We need everything on lockdown. We might have a leak.  And I'm serious about what I said about Comey.  He needs to know.  This is a matter of national security now.  This is no longer just a terrorist attack.  This could be an act of war.  We should get the military involved.  Look  I agree with you.  Something's going on.  Especially given the weird timing  of this $2 trillion.  But we can't just go off on everyone  without knowing all the facts.  What $2 trillion?  This morning,  the U.S. got back in bed with China.  China bailed out E Corp.  Gave them a $2-trillion no-interest loan.  Unprecedented.  It's a trap.  Don't you get it? We have to talk to them.  They can't do this after what happened last night.  What, that some Mexican restaurant got shot up?  It was more than that, and you know it.  We have to tell them.  We can't let them get away with this, Santiago.  They're going to get away with this.  $2 trillion, Dom.  That's the miracle the world's been waiting for.  The U.S. isn't going to mess with its Chinese relations now.  And with the OPR investigation still going,  the bureau isn't even getting close to it.  You gotta be kidding me.  A month ago, they tried to kill us.  And in politics, that's a distant memory.  This deal they have now  is about to potentially solve  the biggest global crisis in history.  [sighs] Now, look.  I'm on your side.  I'm not saying I'm walking away.  I'm just saying we need to start  finding a way to walk in between the mines  and not on them.  Whatever happened, whoever did this,  they mobilized quickly, created a narrative,  and before we even knew it,  this was all in the rearview mirror.  Go home.  Get some rest.  Promise me you'll let me do the interview.  It can wait a few hours.  Go rest.  [door closes]  ["The Ballad of Davy Crockett" playing on radio]  Born on a mountaintop in Tennessee   Greenest state in the land of the free   Raised in the woods so he knew ev'ry tree   Kilt him a b'ar when he was only three   Davy, Davy Crockett   King of the wild frontier   Fought single-handed through the Injun War   Till the Creeks was whipped and the peace was in store   And while he was handlin' this risky chore   Made hisself a legend forevermore   Davy, Davy Crockett   -  The man who don't know fear  - [garage door opening]  He went off to Congress and served a spell   Fixin' up the government and laws as well   Took over Washington, so I hear tell   And patched up the crack in the Liberty Bell   -  Davy, Davy Crockett  - [windshield taps ball]  [music and engine stop]  [garage door closing]  [ice cream truck music playing faintly]  [sprinkler whirring]  [dog barking]  [airplane engine droning]  What the f is going on?  [door closes, lock clicks]  [door handle jiggles]  Hello?  What's happening?  [door opens and closes]  We don't have much time.  Let's get started.  Who are you?  There's water coming out of that fish tank.  We don't have much time.  Let's get started.  [computer hums]  Have you ever cried during sex?  What's going on?  Have you ever cried during sex?  Who are you?  Who sent you here?  Please answer the question.  Have you ever cried during sex?  I'm not answering these questions.  If you don't answer,  I'll be punished.  They'll beat me.  [inhales sharply]  Who's doing that to you?  [phone rings]  Yes?  Yes.  Okay. Bye.  We really need to begin.  Our time is running out.  Have you ever cried during sex?  No.  [keyboard keys clacking, computer hums]  Have you ever fantasized about murdering your father?  No.  [keyboard keys clacking, computer hums]  Are you a giraffe or a seagull?  I cannot do it. It's unconstitutional.  We're talking about rolling out Ecoin loans.  I fail to see how the Constitution  fits into this logic.  Look, with Ecoin equal to one dollar,  it'll free up the economy.  It'll give you some breathing space.  You knew this was going to happen  from the get-go.  And you're hitting me with this while there's  an energy crisis across the Eastern seaboard.  Oh, yeah. I am coming to you first.  - Asking. - Don't give me that.  The only reason why you're here first  is because you don't want to get slapped  with regulations.  But if you are indeed asking,  then I am saying no.  It's unconstitutional.  You can't make your own currency.  That is the federal government's job.  [pounds desk]  We simply cannot let you make big loans in Ecoin  that you wouldn't make in dollars.  [sighs]  Jack.  Look at me.  I am not the problem here.  The problem here is, hard cash is fading  rapidly.  That's just the way of the world right now.  And Bitcoin is spreading.  And if Bitcoin takes over,  we are all in a world of hell.  It is unregulated, it's already reached  its transaction volume maximum,  and it is partly controlled by Chinese miners.  You just accepted $2 trillion from them.  Yes, yes.  And now I want to use it against them.  With Ecoin, we control the ledger  and the mining servers.  We are the authority.  I will make sure you have visibility  into every single wallet that's open,  every loan, every transaction,  which means we can start making new assets,  which means we can start rebuilding the banking sector  without your having to inject even more  politically unpalatable federal funds into it.  The president will laugh in my face.  But he'll know this is the right thing to do.  This is gonna be controlled  by a good, old-fashioned American company.  You want to regulate it?  Be my guest. Regulate the shit out of it.  I'll give you back doors, side doors, tracing  whatever you want.  Just don't shut it down.  This was always the future, Jack.  The Five/Nine attacks  they just accelerated it.  How long?  How long have you been pressing this pedal?  How long have you been plotting against me?  Oh, come on, Jack.  [chuckles] We we've known each other for years.  You know full well I  I don't give a shit about you.  [chuckles] So please,  don't hold a personal grudge just because you lost.  Defeats can still be profitable.  Are you red or purple?  Purple.  [keyboard keys clacking, computer hums]  Is the key in the room?  What?  Is the key in the room?  I don't know what you mean.  Is the key in the room?  I don't know.  [phone ringing]  Yes.  Yes.  Okay.  Hello?  You are standing in a dark room  and can't see anything.  There is a torch and a match.  What do you do?  I light the torch.  The torch fills the dark room with light.  You see a door in front of you.  What do you do?  I open the door.  How do you open it?  I turn the knob.  The knob doesn't turn. How do you open it?  - I don't know. - The knob doesn't turn.  - How do you open it? - I don't know.  The knob doesn't turn. How do you open it?  - I said I don't f ing know. - The knob doesn't turn.  - How do you open it? - With a key.  I use a key. I unlock it with a key.  Thank you.  Hello?  What happens now?  Is the key in the room?  Yes.  [keyboard keys clacking]  - The key was in my fist. - [keyboard keys clacking]  - My fist was in my pocket. - [keyboard keys clacking]  [computer hums]  [computer humming]  I'll be back with your results.  [door opens and closes]  [lock clicks]  [dramatic ambient music]    [water running]  [sighs]  [sighs]  Alexa, wake me up at, um  Sorry, I didn't understand  the question you were asking.  That's because I wasn't asking a question, you dumb bitch.  Alexa, are we friends?  Yes.  We live together.  I feel like I don't even know you.  Alexa, what's your favorite color?  Infrared is super pretty.  [chuckles]  Alexa, do you have a boyfriend?  I'm not the dating kind.  Yeah, me too, hon.  We're a lot alike.  Alexa, what are the color of your eyes?  I don't have eyes,  but my light ring has lots of colors.  [sighs] Mine are gray.  I think.  [chuckles]  Alexa, are you happy?  I'm happy when I'm helping you.  Alexa, are you alone?  I wasn't able to understand the question I heard.  Alexa, do you love me?  That's not the kind of thing I am capable of.  [chuckles]  Yeah.  [sniffles]  [glasses clatter]  Alexa, good night.  Good night. Don't let the bedbugs bite.  [door opens]  [door closes]  [thud]  [cigarette case snaps shut]  - [lighter opens, flicks] - Who are you?  Is this your house?  [watch beeps]  I've been here for hours.  I wanted to confirm  that this wasn't a waste of my time.  - Well, what about my time? - Oh, honey.  My time is much more valuable than yours.  Speaking of, I've only allotted  28 minutes for this conversation,  which is very generous of me.  So we should begin.  I'd like to leave.  Oh, no, you wouldn't.  You've waited so long.  Surely you want to know why.  That is, if you indeed believe  that your time holds any value.  You've been here close to four hours,  and you never thought to walk out the door.  [watch beeps]  The door was locked.  I've always found doors fascinating inventions.  They hold the entry to unlimited imagination.  Before you open any door,  a world filled with possibilities  sits right behind it.  And it isn't until you open it  they are realized.  Such potential they bring to our minds.  And yet a lock  stopped you from all of that.  How  lazy.  Your fish died.  Yes, I know.  You're a terrible person.  [watch beeps]  You hurt that little girl.  Makeup.  It was part of the test.  Empathy  or gullibility.  Take your pick.  Test?  Why were you testing me?  I know you have sensitive information,  and I don't want you to release it.  Normally, my associates would have murdered you by now.  In fact, by my calculations,  you should have been dead 90 days ago.  But somehow, you stuck around long past your expiration.  Who are you?  I am a woman of time.  And I don't believe in accidents.  - You, like an annoying penny - [watch beeps]  Keep turning up.  Everywhere I look, you're there.  That is why I wanted to meet.  So I could find out why you are so special  to Phillip Price.  He's ruining our partnership,  and somehow it seems that you're the motivation.  It's true, we have an event and a friend in common.  But I haven't been fully able to understand  the meaning behind it.  What event?  It's no coincidence  that you and Mr. Alderson became who you are  after what happened with the Washington Township plant  so many years ago.  What does this have to do with Elliot?  Do you know him?  If I told you that your mother  - and Elliot's father - [watch beeps]  Died for a reason, would it make a difference?  That they were a trade,  a sacrifice for the greater good,  that they gave their lives to take humanity  to the next level.  And you are both who you are today because of that event.  You would be a different person.  You wouldn't be sitting in front of me right here.  You are at the intersection of all of it.  So I'm not going to kill you.  But I am going to prove to you  why you need to drop this mission  that you seem so stubbornly unable to let go of.  Look, I don't know what you want.  [watch beeps]  But I'll give you the jump drive.  Please, just let me go.  Fear.  How easy a quicksand of time people let that become.  We both know that you could keep finding  the plant's data.  Like that penny that keeps turning up,  your silly need for justice,  revenge will rear its ugly head  and encourage you to keep trying  and eventually find a way to shut down my project.  I don't want your proof.  I want your belief.  Belief in what?  [watch beeps]  Do you ever think that if you imagined  or believed in something, it could come true  Simply by will?  Yes.  Actually, I did believe that.  But I'm slowly having to admit  that's just not the real world  Even if I want it to be.  [watch beeps]  Well, I guess it all depends  on what your definition  of real is.  [sparse piano music]    [whispering] Mind awake.  Body asleep.  Mind awake.  Body asleep.  Mind awake.  Body asleep.  Mind awake.  Body asleep.  How long have I been asleep for?  [whispering] Body asleep.  Mind awake.  Body asleep.  Mind awake.  Body asleep.  Mind awake.  Body asleep.    Body asleep.  Mind awake.  [sighs]  [whispering] Body asleep.  Did it work?  [whispering] Body asleep.  Mind awake.  Body asleep.  Can he see us?  Hear us?  Hey, asshole.    Now I'm the silent observer, like him.  Like you.  [whispering] Body asleep.  Mind awake.  Body asleep.  This is a cipher message.  That's why he wanted to come home.  Someone's trying to make contact with me  Each number represents a letter.  A is one. B is two. C is three.  You can hear him too, right?    [whispering] Body asleep.  G-U-R.  [keyboard keys clacking]    G-U-R.  T-H-E.  A shift value of 13.  It's a rot-13 algorithm.    "The Perrin pages will help you find your calling,  "but don't be duped.  "Cut down the woods.  They be Erdos."  Number sets.  Where? Where?  Where are you?  "Cut down the woods."  Remove all of the Perrin and Erdos woods numbers.  [ominous music]      It's a phone number.  But to who?  [line trills]  - [line clicks] - 25th and 8th.  There will be a cab waiting.    [dramatic music]    [crowd chattering]  $5! IT'S MOGet your $5 flags! $5!  We got Bitcoin here. Bitcoin for sale.  We can't lose him.  Bitcoin for sale.  [indistinct chatter]  [ominous music]    Anybody have Con Ed bills?  Con Ed bills! Anybody have Con Ed bills?    With Ecoin's soaring popularity,  E Corp CEO Phillip Price announced what he is calling  a revolutionary new loan program  backed by the emerging cryptocurrency.  Ecoin loans are being touted as having increased benefits  -over conventional - [car door closes]  U.S. dollar-backed loans,  all of which are designed to support  low- and middle-income borrowers.  What this means, as Mr. Price has stressed,  is that this new loan program will not only provide  the economy with a much-needed jump-start  but, more importantly,  -give economic relief - [knock at door]  To those most affected post-Five/Nine.  However, it does seem to fly in the face  - of E Corp's - Angela.  What happened to you?  I thought we were gonna meet.  I need you to forget about that voice mail that I left you.  [engine idling]  [man continues indistinctly on TV]  Are you in danger?  No.  Something is wrong. I can tell.  You are not telling me everything.  [electricity hums]  With a much-needed jump-start  but, more importantly, give economic relief  to those most affected post-Five/Nine.  However, it does seem to fly in the face  of E Corp's economic policy  Don't call me anymore.  [man continues indistinctly on TV]  [car door slams]  Where did he go?  Wait, I have to remember,  I'm not following him.  I am him.  What I should be asking is,  where am I going?  Elliot?  You Elliot?  How do you know my name?  [speaking Arabic]  No Elliot?  [speaking Arabic]  - [engine turns over] - No, no, okay.  Wait.  Elliot, yes?  Yes.  Address?  What do you mean?  Address.  I don't know.  [speaking Arabic]  [door opens]  Chambers and Church.  [pop music]  I've got bad complications   We have to be careful now.  This is no longer a question of what I'm seeing.  No, we know that's not reliable.  The real question is,  what am I not seeing?  You have to understand,  us two meeting right now, it's dangerous.  Don't worry. We're safe.  Our partners have proven to be very influential.    I got a bad reputation     Do you see him?    Do you see someone sitting next to me?  [laughs]    [speaking Arabic]  Elliot, what are you doing?  - My apologies, sir. - Did you hear that?  - [knocking] - Hey!  - Do you see him? - Elliot, stop it.  Did did you hear that?  - Hey! - [speaking Arabic]  You have to calm down! Calm down, Elliot.  I need you to turn around and tell me  if you see someone sitting next to me right now.  - Just pull over, sir. - [speaking Arabic]  I'm terribly sorry. If you could just pull over.  Do you see him? Hey!  - Shut up! No! - Elliot!  I need you to turn around and tell me  if you see someone sitting next to me!  - [tires squealing] - [speaking Arabic]  What was the meaning of that?  I know you've been under a lot of stress,  but I've been under a lot of stress too.  Can you even begin to imagine what it's been like for me?  [The Penguins' "Earth Angel" playing]  We can't talk out here. We're exposed.  Let's go.  Go where?  Enough of these games. Now, let's go.  - We're close. - Close to what?  Have you forgotten everything?  Dark Army told me that stage two is ready.  When you see it, you'll be pleased.    It worked, Elliot.  It's up to us now.  Let me show you.  My darling dear   Love you for all time   I'm just a fool   Louie, I think this is the beginning  of a beautiful friendship.  - [laughing] -  With you
1 Dark Army told me stage two is ready.  I know he's dead. I know this isn't real.  I think this is the beginning of a beautiful friendship.  People have been forging paper records.  We haven't set up a system  to verify these sorts of claims.  Rebuilding our database is the only solution  to this problem.  Immunity is on the table  in exchange for a name.  That's all I care about.  We have to talk to them.  They can't do this after what happened last night.  What, that some Mexican restaurant got shot up?  We can't let them get away with this.  They're going to get away with this.  Promise me you'll let me do the interview.  You've been messing with me for way too long.  It's my birthday gift to you.  (SPEAKING FOREIGN LANGUAGE)    You know, of all the gifts he sent,  this is the greatest we ever received.  I have to know what you're planning.  We were meant to be allies.  We might just want the same thing,  and I need to be involved.  I am pretty positive you're dead wrong  about that, my friend.  I don't think there's anything we could possibly agree on.  (THUNDER RUMBLING)  Seems you've been very busy lately.  I have to know what you're planning.  We were meant to be allies.  We might just want the same thing,  and I need to be involved.  I'm pretty positive you're dead wrong  about that, my friend.  I don't think there's anything we could possibly agree on.  I don't know what game you're playing,  but I suggest you cut the bullshit.  If there's nothing else, I think we're done here.  Aren't you forgetting that I know  your dirty little secret?  There are people close to you that wouldn't be happy  if they knew what I know.  (TENSE MUSIC)    We're both too smart to allow pettiness  to dictate our actions.  We're better than that.  Weigh the pros and cons.  Do what you need to do.  As soon as the tabulations are over with,  you'll know that telling anyone about this  does neither one of us any good.  In fact, you'll realize that the only thing to do  in your position when it comes to me  is nothing.  (TENSE MUSIC)    Elliot!  (THUNDER RUMBLES)  I believe in fate.  There's a reason we met.  There's something between us. I can see it.    You're only seeing what's in front of you.  You're not seeing what's above you.  (THUNDER RUMBLING)  (SEAGULLS CRY)  I don't understand, I  I want to.  Help me understand.  "So much depends upon a red wheelbarrow  "glazed with rainwater  beside the white chickens."  (THUNDER RUMBLES)  (SOFT, DRAMATIC MUSIC)    My father used to say that to me all the time as a child.  It was the only English he knew.  Some silly poem.  It meant very much to him.    I use it as a reminder  a reminder of him  and a reminder of what I never wanted to become.    (THUNDER CONTINUES RUMBLING)    (ELECTRONIC MUSIC)   The young man stepped into the hall of mirrors   Where he discovered a reflection of himself     Sometimes he saw his real face   And sometimes a stranger at his place     He made up the person he wanted to be   -  With the echoes of himself  - (DOOR BUZZES)    Even the greatest stars     Live their lives in the looking glass   Even the greatest stars   Live their lives in the looking glass   (CLANKING, CLATTERING)  (CLANG)  Go on.    (ELECTRICITY CRACKLING)    Even the greatest stars   (METAL SHRIEKING)  (CLANG)  In the looking glass   - (CLICK) - (MOTOR HUMS)  (ELEVATOR CLUNKING SOFTLY)  How is the Dark Army behind this  whatever this is?  (CLUNK)  It's one thing to question your mind.  It's another to question your eyes and ears.  But then again, isn't it all the same,  our senses just mediocre inputs for our brain?  Come on.  Sure, we rely on them,  trust they accurately portray the real world around us,  but what if the haunting truth is, they can't?  That what we perceive isn't the real world at all  but just our mind's best guess?  That all we really have is a garbled reality,  a fuzzy picture we will never truly make out.  So this is where you've been staying?  God, no. We're only operating from here.  Dark Army set this up?  They're our partners. Of course they set this up  for us.  We needed a discreet place.  Discreet? You're the most wanted man in the world,  and you're walking around like that.  You really don't remember this, do you?  Because I'm not the one who set this up.  We've been through this already.  It must have been him. Mr. Robot.  (TENSE MUSIC)    (SIGHS) Elliot  I need to know.  Are you able to handle this or not?  You're here under great risk, not only to me, but to our plan.  And your, um disposition  is very much concerning me.  Joanna.    Your wife.  She's been looking for you.  I'm doing what's necessary.  (HUMMING, BUZZING)  Thank goodness they've given us these UPSes  for the power surges.  Ready to look at what we accomplished?    Wanna take your jacket off, hon?  Don't call me hon.  I just meant you have some blood on there.  I had some too, on my shirt.  I know what's on my fucking jacket.  I'm sorry for the loss of  I invoke my Fifth Amendment privilege  against self-incrimination  and respectfully decline to answer any of your questions.  I'm not asking a question.  I just wanted to tell you how sorry I am for the loss  I invoke my Fifth Amendment privilege  against self-incrimination  and respectfully decline to answer any of your questions.  I know you guys were close.  I'm sorry you had to lose him.  He was involved in one of the most  notorious hacker rings in the world.  Things like this come with the territory.  I invoke my Fifth Amendment privilege  against self-incrimination and respectfully  You keep trying to invoke the Fifth Amendment,  but there's this thing called the Patriot Act  that a bunch of people signed into law.  You know what that means?  It means that you are not on some TV show.  This isn't "Burn Notice."  There are no blue skies for you out there.  Characters like you  are not welcome here.  As far as anyone's concerned right now,  you're an enemy combatant.  You don't have any rights.  What the fuck do you want me to tell you?  I meet my boyfriend. We go eat.  He gets shot.  End of Q&A.  Give me a sec.  (BUZZER)  You're gonna want to talk to me.  We're not so different.  We're both Jersey girls.  I know it's hard for you to believe this right now,  but trust me,  by the end of this day, you and I are gonna be best friends.  Of all the gifts you've been sending me,  I've got to say,  this one got me the wettest.  this one got me the wettest.  So I'm waiting.  What?  The phone calls  the gifts.  Make me understand.  I bet you feel all high and mighty right now.  That right?  Do you think you're a powerful man, Scott?  Do you feel powerful?  (SLURRING) I am the CTO  of the largest conglomerate  I'm not interested in your job title.  I want to understand  what would make a powerful man like you  risk everything  all so he could drive me crazy?  What does it matter?  The morning I learned that I was  promoted to CTO,  I get the call.  Price wanted to hold an event that night  to announce my position.  I thought,  "I couldn't be any happier."  And then Sharon walked in.  She had made a  a doctor's visit  and wanted me to go with her.  She had found out a month ago  she was pregnant.  Didn't talk.  I didn't know if she was  happy or sad  or if I was happy or sad.  But when we first saw that sonogram  We lit up.  I thought, uh (WEEPY LAUGH)  this is gonna end up being the best day of my life.  (CRYING)  (CLEARS THROAT)  After the funeral, I didn't know why  I couldn't understand  how I could gain and lose everything  In one fell swoop.  I wanted you to feel what I felt.  I wanted to give you hope  that I could step on!  (SOBBING) But I'm sorry.  (SOBBING)  Ohh  You pussy.  You piece of shit.  I hope you rot in hell like your wife.  You're mourning a woman who, after she found out  she was pregnant, was gonna fuck my husband's brains out.  I'm glad she's dead.  Fuck her and her fetus corpse.  (WORDLESS YELLING)  (CRASHING AND BANGING)  Aah! (GRUNTS)  (GASPING)  (STRAINED) No wonder your wife was gonna cheat on you.  You're weak and pathetic.  That child's lucky to be dead.  (GRUNTING)  (DARK MUSIC)    (GAGGING, WHEEZING)  No  - (WHEEZING) (SCOT THUDS, OBJECTS CLATTER)  - Oh, my God. - (COUGHS)  Oh, my God, what have I done?  - (GAGS) - (WHISPERS) Oh, my God.  My God  (GASPS, COUGHS)  (TELEPHONE BEEPING)  - (LINE TRILLING) - (GASPS)  (WHEEZES, COUGHS)  911. What's your emergency?  Vincent had a punctured lung and a broken collarbone,  but the doctors say he's gonna recover.  The bad news is, he's gonna be arrested  and put away for a long time for his stunt in D.C.  God.  Politicians love to teabag the rest of us.  Too bad they can't take the heat.  What your friend did was domestic terrorism  in the eyes of the law.  Not my friend.  His associates, the ones we arrested,  identified you as the ringleader of their outfit.  Trust me,  I am no leader.  (LAUGHS) I can barely keep a guy.  Look, Darlene.  I don't really care what happened in D.C.  In fact, I thought it was kind of funny.  I've never seen Congress move as fast as they did on that day.  But there are serious holes in your story.  And I want to work with you to figure out why.  Look.  Babe.  I know how this works.  You get close to me,  play the sympathy card,  relate to me  we're just two crazy, wacky Jersey girls.  Take advantage that I did lose  what probably was the love of my life.  And you act like you care.  But that's just it  an act.  Which is sick and twisted.  I'd rather you arrest me and throw me into jail.  But let's get something straight.  You will not get anything out of me.  So why don't you go read your manual  and find the chapter on conniving cunts  that don't give a fuck about you or your feelings  and then get back to me with some real tactics?  Otherwise, get me a lawyer.  As far as I'm concerned,  my only statement to you is that I saw my boyfriend  go brainless last night at dinner.  I ordered the breakfast combo,  and he stole some of my bacon.  If you want any other details,  the answer is suck a dick.  (LAUGHS)  (LAUGHS)  Wait here.  (BUZZER)  (DOOR OPENS AND CLOSES)  Remember that movie?  I used to love it growing up.  It's not really scary, but gory.  You know how those two things aren't really the same?  This is the stuff we found from Cisco's place.  Couldn't find any tapes.  Figured you were smart enough to destroy them.  We're running fingerprints and DNA.  Soon we're gonna figure out if those fsociety videos  were filmed using this camera.  If we find your DNA on that stuff  I don't know  you tell me how that looks.  As far as your fsociety videos are concerned,  it looks like the one person that can help you  is fucking dead.  As far as I'm concerned,  Cisco and I were into filming some freaky shit.  Is that a matter of national security too, hon?  Then there's this.  Remember your buddy, Xander Jones?  According to him, you guys had a sexual relationship.  (SCOFFS) Dude, are you just gonna  slut shame me all day?  Is that really all you got?  He also said that you were the one that stole his gun.  Well, I can't prove that, obviously,  because your fingerprints weren't on his safe.  I figured you'd be crafty enough to clean up afterward.  What is funny, though,  is that this casing is linked to the Fun Society arcade.  (TENSE MUSIC)    Darlene  You sure you still don't want to talk to me?  (TENSE MUSIC)    What do you think?  They're planning something.  Mr. Robot, Tyrell, Dark Army, and Whiterose  are in cahoots to plan something big.  And the worst part? They all think it's me.  They all think I'm the ringleader,  the one in charge,  and I have no idea what it is.  This place is Mount Olympus.  We are prime.  We're ready!    These are blueprints for a building  and a disassembled firmware  for an uninterruptible power supply,  but I can't understand much past that.  I'm not sure what the play is.  I could ask him,  but who am I really asking?  Elliot, look over here.  (FOREBODING MUSIC)    Paper docs are coming in from all over,  slowly but surely.  The blueprints.  Is that the building?  The offline version?  17 of 71 facilities around the country so far.  Within the next month,  they'll have all the paper documents here.  I thought we were gonna have to deal with multiple facilities,  but they're making it easier for us by moving it all to one.  This is where the paper records are going.  They're trying to rebuild the database.  Titles and deeds, the bloodline of all real property  in this country.  This is how they're surviving the hack.  When our malware executes,  their whole program  Our malware?  What malware?  Oh, you orchestrated it beautifully.  When the hacked firmware  Designed to override the safety limits  on the UPS devices  and overcharge the lead acid batteries in the battery room  filling the space up with hydrogen gas.  After breaking the fans and cutting off backup power,  the malicious firmware  repeatedly re-engages the UPS autotransformer,  creating a spark to ignite an explosion.  There are enough batteries to produce enough hydrogen gas  to level the building.  When you hacked Evil Corp,  you gave us access to the backdoor.  You made it possible for us to infect them.  I coded the femtocell malware for Darlene.  But it wasn't supposed to be for this.  The conference call leak, I must admit,  was quite cute a nice distraction.  But this  is for us.    All of us.    I'm gonna rip his fuckin' face off!  This fucker thinks he can hurt my girl.  What's his address?  Tell me his address, 'cause I'm gonna go find him,  and I'm gonna fuckin' kill him.  (OBJECTS CRASH, SHATTER)  Are you done?  (OBJECTS CLATTERING)  If you're serious about punishing him  I am. I am.  Just tell me what to do, and I'll fuckin' do it.  I'll do it.  No questions asked.  - Just - Shh.  If you are serious about punishing him,  then you can do one thing for me.  What? Anything. Say the word.  You remember the night we met  at the E Corp party?  Yeah.  You were tending the bar that night.  You stayed late to clean up.  Yeah, that's what we always do after the  Then you saw Scott  coming down from the stairwell leading to the roof.  He was disheveled, out of breath, sweaty.  You were about to ask him if he needed anything,  but he was in such a hurry, he left without saying a word.  What are you talking about?  I didn't see anything like that.  Yes, you did.  No.  I remember because the cops were asking every one of us  questions about that night, and like I told them  cleaned up my station, and I went home.  Derek, you said you were serious about punishing him.  (LAUGHS) Yeah, but Joanna  Look at my face, Derek.  You want the man that did this to me  to do what he did and get away with it?  But Joanna, I  Once you tell the cops your story,  they're gonna ask you why you're just now confessing  after months of silence.  You're gonna tell them that you were scared  that Scott Knowles intimidated you.  That when Tyrell went missing,  you didn't think any of that mattered anymore.  But your conscience got the better of you.  This is how we win.  This is how we punish him.  You understand?  Thank you.  Thank you for protecting me.  Of course, babe. I love you.  Now, let's go over it again.  - We can't do this. - You want us to stay on target?  This is the target. This gets us to the top.  I know we've been operating under top secret  on this program, but I think it's worth the risk.  This girl's being a wise-ass.  She thinks she's smarter than we are.  That's because so far she has been.  We got to show her we're smarter.  Unless she thinks we're worthy,  none of this is gonna fly.  Just trying to sidestep the mines, like you said.  We've been building this plan for three months.  Look around you.  All our leads are getting killed and disappearing.  We've lost three suspects.  Dark Army's cleaning house.  So that must mean something is about to go down.  Our window is closing.  Every lead we've been following up to this point  has led to a dead end.  Yeah, I'm gonna bring the ADIC in on this.  Please, you're gonna let him try and flip her?  She's gonna shut down.  I'm right for this.  Then I'm gonna go in with you.  Let me do it alone.  I know her.  I am her.  And if we're doing this,  we're doing this now.  (BUZZER)  We have 6,332 agents  working on just this case alone.  It's the hardest case I've ever worked on  and probably the hardest one I ever will.  Swear to God, the only reason  why I think I've gotten this far  Is because I have no life.  (SMALL LAUGH)  It's the only thing I've been able to think about.  Now I'm sitting here with you  In this awful room.  And no matter what story gets written in the final analysis,  we've both been a part  of one of the biggest events in world history.  Believe what you want.  But neither you nor I  are special.  I've already learned that lesson.  If you're open to changing your mind,  I'd like to show you something.  Come with me.  You're a lot more special than you think.  (DRAMATIC MUSIC)    The moth don't care when he sees the flame     He might get burned, but he's in the game     And once he's in, he can't go back   He'll beat his wings   Till he burns them black   No, the moth don't care when he sees the flame     The moth don't care when he sees the flame     The moth don't care   Sure, the strategy was risky, but  we knew we only had one shot.  The flame and the moth got a sweetheart deal  If we rounded everyone up, guns blazing,  we thought we would never get the man in the middle.  And with the stakes being this high,  it was imperative that we got him  before he knew we were getting him.  No, the moth don't care if the flame is real   So we sat back  and waited.  They call it the python approach.    They'll lie in wait  for the right moment to strike.  You know some can go up to a year without eating?  And once he's in, he can't go back   The patient predator.  He'll beat his wings till he burns them black     And then Romero's death made you all scurry.  When he sees the flame   Funny enough, you thought Dark Army was involved.  As it turns out, it was just a stray bullet  from the neighbor next door.  Freak accident.  The moth don't care if the flame is real     The flame and the moth got a sweetheart deal     And nothing fuels a good flirtation   Like need and anger and desperation     No, the moth don't care if the flame is real     The moth don't care if the flame is real     So come on, let's go   Ready or not     'Cause there's a flame I know   Hotter than hot     And with a fuse that's so   Thoroughly shot   (MUSIC STOPS)  You've got to be fucking kidding me.  I've tried everything.  I fought him. I OD'd on Adderall.  I made peace with him. I even got myself arrested.  No matter what I do, he always finds a way.  Why?  That's all I want to know.  Why is it so important for you to torment me?  What is it that you care so much about?  What's this all for?  I'm not tormenting you.  After everything you've put me through,  you continue to lie?  I didn't lie to you.  He's alive, man!  He's sitting right fucking there!  You made a plan with the Dark Army.  When was that?  The night of the hack?  What is stage two?  The femtocell, the backdoor?  You planned all of that with him?  You can't look at it like this.  You're me. I'm you.  You figured that out. We're the same guy.  Everything you're blaming me for  you're blaming yourself for.  Stop talking in circles.  You got Whiterose to get us out of prison.  The release that was you.  You somehow communicated with them.  It's what you wanted.  You said to Darlene before we started this thing  that we had to go all the way.  It was all part of the plan.  Otherwise, what was the point of the hack?  If we were going to do this, we had to go all the way.  And that, Elliot, is what I want.  It's what you asked me here for.  Then tell me, what is that, exactly?  What is "all the way"?  This is where we get into trouble.  You're meant to know only as much as you can handle.  When you wander outside of your realm  is when we end up fighting.  Are you  you distracting me right now?  (KEYBOARD KEYS CLACKING)  (SUSPENSEFUL MUSIC)    What are you doing?  I'm hacking the firmware like we discussed.  We didn't discuss shit.  We're not hacking anything.  This will level that building and kill people.  Elliot, you need to leave that computer alone.  - I'm confused. - It's over.  I'm deleting the malware.  Elliot, I wouldn't do that.  You can't delete that.  Not only am I gonna delete it,  I'm gonna get rid of the backdoor.  You do that, and everything we worked for is gone.  Elliot, I am warning you  This isn't what I want.  I want it shut down.  But this was your idea.  (SOMBER MUSIC)    Leave the computer alone!  He's not gonna let you do this.  Trust me.  (CLICK)  (TENSE MUSIC)    I don't know what's gotten into you.  We're supposed to be gods together,  and yet you want to destroy our destiny?  You're not making sense.  Elliot, listen to him.  Walk away from the computer.    You're the same.  (SHOUTING) What the fuck are you talking about?  We are definitely not the same!  Back away from the computer.    This is just another of Mr. Robot's mind tricks.  No.  Elliot  I don't want to shoot you, but I will.  Elliot, listen to him.  He's not holding a gun.  He's not even there.  Elliot, you need to listen to him  and step away from the computer!  Touch that keyboard, and I will shoot you.    No.    He won't.  He can't.  He doesn't exist.    I'm the only one that exists.    It's time to finally take back control.  (SUSPENSEFUL MUSIC)    Real control.    (GUNSHOT)  (SHELL CLATTERS)  (EXHALES) Ah  (SHAKY BREATHING)  You know, when you gave me this,  you said to stop anyone who gets in the way of our plan.  I didn't know what you meant, but now it's very clear.  You did this to yourself, Elliot.  You asked earlier what "all the way" is.  This is it.  (VOICE STATICKY) Sorry, kiddo.  (BREAKING UP) I couldn't let anyone stop this  including us.  Thanks for staying with us, Codyites.  There's a lot to get to tonight.  Look, all we do here is  is we try and bring you the truth.  And they're trying to take that away.  (PHONE BUZZES) They tried to take it away.  Some of you might notice your lights flickering tonight.  Now, the fa  - (PHONE CONTINUES BUZZING) - (NO AUDIO)  Hello?  Don't worry. It's Angela.  - (HEAVY BREATHING) - Tyrell?  Tyrell, are you there?  It's okay.  They told me you would be calling.  This is a secure line.  Are you with Elliot right now?  Yes.  Okay, I'm on my way.  Don't let anyone near him.  I should be the first person he sees when he wakes up.  (SIGHS) Okay.  Tyrell, you did what needed to be done.  - I love him. - (CRYING)  I do too.  - (POWER-DOWN HUM) - (CLANK)  (TIRES SCREECHING)  - (CAR ALARMS BLARING) - (CAR HORNS BLASTING)  ("We've Got Tonight" plays)    I know it's late   I know you're weary   And I know your plans   Don't include me   Still here we are   (CONTINUES TINNILY)  Both of us lonely   Longing for shelter   From all that we see   Why should we worry   No one will care, girl   Look at the starlight   So far away   We've got tonight   Who needs tomorrow   Have you given any more thought to what I said?  I don't want to discuss this.  - Mobley - Fredrick.  (SONG CONTINUES PLAYING)  Seriously, Fredrick,  what if we could?  This might work.  And also, it might not.  I've taken enough risks for one lifetime.  I don't want to discuss it anymore.    But what if we could generate the keys  Tanya (CLEARS THROAT)  Will you just please shut up?  What? This is important.  - We need to talk about it. - Change the subject.  I don't want to change the subject.  I miss my family.  I don't want to live here.  Oh, come on, it's nice out here.  You know, uh look, no more bad winters.  Hardly rains. That's great.  I hate your friend. He's a dick.  No, I-I told you.  He did not know you were in the bathroom.  Trust me, he knew exactly what he was doing.  Weirdo. Save up enough money,  and you'll be able to get your own place eventually.  Okay? Apartments here are dirt cheap.  Won't be that long.  Just be thankful he was able to get us this job.  (SONG CONTINUES)  Both of us lonely  Hey, what flavor did you get again?  You want to trade?  Please, just look at it.  Okay, so so what? Say I did.  Then what?  If what I discovered is real, do you know what that means?  Yeah, I know exactly what it means.  Yeah. It means we could  potentially undo this whole thing.  Put everything back the way it was.  I know. I know.  Please.  Just look at what I found.  Excuse me.  Oh, sorry, dude. We're on a break.  Yeah, I just had a quick question.  Do you have the time?
